# An Invitation with Promise

To those who yearn for spiritual truth, some things become self-evident. I
bear my witness of these things. God is in His heavens. We mortals are His
spirit offspring. Jesus is our Redeemer. Joseph Smith was God's prophet, and
Gordon B. Hinckley is His prophet today. Revelations are pouring forth as in
days of old. The kingdom of God, which is The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, is once more upon the earth.

Satan is real and is on the earth as well. He and his legions are wreaking
havoc among the children of men. He speaks no truth, feels no love, promotes
no good, and avows nothing but mayhem and destruction.

Therefore, I raise this day a "voice of warning." [1]  It is an urgent,
sobering reminder and invitation to good men and women everywhere. Listen to
these words of revelation received on November 1, 1831:

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the
inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake
unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; ...

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the
day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace
shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own
dominion." [2]

The Lord speaks of calamity to befall the inhabitants of the earth. Calamities
come in different forms. From time to time the forces of nature convulse, and
we are wrenched by their destructive powers.

Even more devastating, however, are the calamitous forces of evil which
surfeit us continually. In accordance with the prophecy of 1831, peace has now
been taken from the earth, and the devil has power over his dominion. His
beguiling ways are mesmerizing the people. Temptation is on every hand.
Crassness and wrangling have become a way of life. What was once considered
awful is now considered tame; what at first titillates, soon captivates and
then destroys.

This calamity of evil will continue to spread until "the whole world ...
groaneth ... under the bondage of sin." [3]

Therefore, this "voice of warning":

  * _Beware of worldly lusts._ They stimulate the senses but enslave the soul. Those caught in the web of sensuality find that it is not easily broken.

  * _Beware of worldly wealth._ Its promises are enticing, but its happiness is a mirage. Wrote the Apostle Paul, "The love of money is the root of all evil." [4] 

  * _Beware of worldly preoccupation with self._ The highs are counterfeit; the lows are despairing. Love, kindness, personal fulfillment, and genuine self-worth are found in service to God and others, not in service to oneself.

In the midst of these perils, there is a safe harbor. From the revelation
cited earlier comes this assurance:

"And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their
midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world." [5]

There is safety in being a Saint. Members of the Church of Jesus Christ today
are known as Latter-day Saints. In addition to being the Lord's designation of
those who belong to His Church, this appellation also serves as His invitation
to a better way of life.

This became clear to me some years ago when, as a young father, I needed to
purchase some temple clothing. Upon entering the store, my attention was drawn
to a sign on the counter that read "For Latter-day Saints Only." The message
jolted me. In my mind, an argument ensued. _Why does it say "For Latter-day
Saints Only"?_ I asked myself. _Why doesn't it say something like "For Endowed
Church Members"? Why does it raise this issue of being a "Latter-day Saint"?_

The years since have tempered my impetuous nature. That argumentative
encounter of long ago has become a treasured, defining moment. The experience
taught me that just being a member of this Church is not enough. Nor is merely
going through the motions of membership sufficient in this day of cynicism and
unbelief. The spirituality and vigilance of a saint are required.

Being saintly is to be good, pure, and upright. For such persons, virtues are
not only declared but lived. For Latter-day Saints, the kingdom of God, or the
Church, is not a byline; rather, it is the center and the substance of their
lives. Home is "a bit of heaven," [6]  not a hotel. The family is not merely a
societal or biological entity. It is the basic eternal unit in God's kingdom
wherein the gospel of Jesus Christ is taught and lived. Indeed, Latter-day
Saints diligently strive to become a little better, a little kinder, a little
nobler in the daily affairs of life.

The Lord sets forth the way in which such progress is made. Said He,
"Wherefore, seek not the things of this world but seek ye first to build up
the kingdom of God, and to establish his righteousness." [7]

Holding to this course provides Latter-day Saints the means for avoiding the
treacherous shoals of worldliness. Living this way enables members of the
Church to become the covenant people of the Lord. For our time, we have the
following prophetic guidance from President Hinckley on how this can be done.
I quote:

"We are a covenant people. I have had the feeling that if we could just
encourage our people to live by three or four covenants everything else would
take care of itself. ...

"_The first of these is the covenant of the sacrament,_ in which we take upon
ourselves the name of the Savior and agree to keep His commandments with the
promise in His covenant that He will bless us with His spirit. ...

"_Second, the covenant of tithing._ ... The promise ... is that He will stay the
destroyer and open the windows of heaven and pour down blessings that there
will not be room enough to receive them. ...

"_Three, the covenants of the temple:_ Sacrifice, the willingness to sacrifice
for this the Lord's work--and inherent in that law of sacrifice is the very
essence of the Atonement. ... Consecration, which is associated with it, a
willingness to give everything, if need be, to help in the on-rolling of this
great work. And a covenant of love and loyalty one to another in the bonds of
marriage, fidelity, chastity, morality.

"_If our people could only learn to live by these covenants, everything else
would take care of itself, I am satisfied."_ [8]

_Worldly lusts_ lose their allure as the holy sacrament assumes its proper
place in our lives. This covenant enables the faithful to keep themselves
"unspotted from the world." [9]

_Worldly wealth_ loses its peril through conscientious adherence to the Lord's
tithe. Returning to Him a tithe of all He provides engenders in the giver a
love of God above all else. It introduces the obedient to the higher law of
giving without command. The fast and fast offerings are embraced and power
comes to loose the bands of wickedness, lift heavy burdens, bless the less
fortunate, and strengthen family ties. [10]  The covenant of tithing weans the
faithful from the love of money and its attendant trappings.

_Worldly preoccupation with self_ surrenders to sacrifice, consecration, and
the other holy covenants of the temple. As the Redeemer of the world gave all
that we might be saved, these covenants allow us to give our all in the
accomplishment of Heavenly Father's purposes for His children.

And so, fear not. The things deemed weak by the world overthrow evils that
appear so mighty and strong. Righteous men speak in the name of God the Lord.
Faith increases in the earth. The everlasting covenants blossom in the lives
of Latter-day Saints. The fulness of Christ's gospel is proclaimed by precept
and example unto the ends of the world. And the Lord's covenant people prepare
this earth for His Second Coming. [11]  This is our duty. May the Lord sustain
us in it is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.   [D&amp;C 1:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.4?lang=eng#3).

  2.   [D&amp;C 1:17, 35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.17%2C35?lang=eng#16).

  3.   [D&amp;C 84:49](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.49?lang=eng#48).

  4.   [1 Tim. 6:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-tim/6.10?lang=eng#9).

  5.   [D&amp;C 1:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.36?lang=eng#35).

  6.  David O. McKay, in Conference Report, Apr. 1964, 5.

  7.  JST, Matt. 6:38; see [Matt. 6:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/6.33?lang=eng#32), footnote _a._

  8.   _Teachings of Gordon B. Hinckley_ (1997), 146-47; emphasis added.

  9.   [D&amp;C 59:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.9?lang=eng#8); see also [D&amp;C 59:10, 12-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.10%2C12-13?lang=eng#9).

  10.  See [Isa. 58:6-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/58.6-11?lang=eng#5).

  11.  See [D&amp;C 1:19-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.19-23?lang=eng#18).

