# Things Pertaining to Righteousness

We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants that after the testimony of the
servants of God, the testimony of earthquakes and the testimony of other
events will follow. "And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's
hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people" ([D&amp;C
88:91](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.91?lang=eng#90); see also [verses
88-90](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.88-90?lang=eng#87)).

As a member of the Caribbean Area Presidency, I was a personal witness to the
faithful Saints who replaced fear with faith. Lessons learned in Haiti may be
likened to Book of Mormon illustrations.

The impression of that terrible destruction brought to my mind the words in
the 28th chapter of Alma: "This was a time that there was a great mourning and
lamentation heard throughout all the land" ([Alma
28:4](/scriptures/bofm/alma/28.4?lang=eng#3)).

Forty-two members also lost their lives. While their families and friends
"mourn for the loss of their kindred, yet they rejoice and exult in the hope,
and even know, according to the promises of the Lord, that they are raised to
dwell at the right hand of God, in a state of never-ending happiness" ([Alma
28:12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/28.12?lang=eng#11)).

Immediate help was sent by the Church to members and nonmembers and was
distributed under the direction of the local priesthood and Relief Society
leaders. They not only received medical aid, food, water, and other basic
supplies, but they also received counsel, guidance, and comfort from their
local leaders. They have the support of the members of the Church in all the
world that "mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in
need of comfort" ([Mosiah 18:9](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.9?lang=eng#8)).

Different prophets in different times warned us of another tragedy that is
less perceptible but not less important, and this is the "awful death [that]
cometh upon the wicked; for they die as to things pertaining to things of
righteousness; for they are unclean, and no unclean thing can inherit the
kingdom of God" ([Alma 40:26](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.26?lang=eng#25)).

Nephi taught this principle to his brothers, saying to them that those who
"die in their wickedness ... must be cast off also, as to the things which are
spiritual, which are pertaining to righteousness" ([1 Nephi
15:33](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.33?lang=eng#32)).

Samuel the Lamanite prophet taught that "whosoever repenteth not is hewn down
and cast into the fire; and there cometh upon them again a spiritual death,
yea, a second death, for they are cut off again as to things pertaining to
righteousness" ([Helaman 14:18](/scriptures/bofm/hel/14.18?lang=eng#17)).

The tragedy of dying as to things that are _spiritual_ has a greater impact
for those who "have been once enlightened by the Spirit of God, and have had
great knowledge of things pertaining to righteousness, and then have fallen
away into sin and transgression[;] they become more hardened, and thus their
state becomes worse than though they had never known these things" ([Alma
24:30](/scriptures/bofm/alma/24.30?lang=eng#29)).

As parents and leaders we need to watch over our members and families, helping
them to stay away from those things that could lead them to a spiritual death.
We also seek to rescue those who are now dead as to the things that are
spiritual and help them to "be born again; yea, born of God, changed from
their carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of
God, becoming his sons and daughters" ([Mosiah
27:25](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/27.25?lang=eng#24)).

The spiritual healing of those who have been dead as to the things pertaining
to righteousness comes about through the power of the Atonement, conversion to
the truth, and adherence to the principles of righteousness.

Teaching our members and families about the things pertaining to righteousness
is essential in the process of achieving an enduring conversion since it can
lead them to obtain a correct knowledge of the Lord's commandments, the
principles and doctrines of the gospel, and the requirements and ordinances
with which we must comply in order to achieve salvation in the Lord's kingdom.

There are many examples in the scriptures that confirm the importance of
teaching the "things pertaining to righteousness" to help obtain an enduring
conversion. In the account that is given of Ammon and his brethren preaching
the gospel among the Lamanites, we read: "And Ammon did preach unto the people
of king Lamoni; and it came to pass that he did teach them all things
concerning things pertaining to righteousness" ([Alma
21:23](/scriptures/bofm/alma/21.23?lang=eng#22)).

We can see the results of diligently teaching all things pertaining to
righteousness as we continue reading the account in chapter 23, where it says,
"As many as believed, or as many as were brought to the knowledge of the truth
... were converted unto the Lord [and] never did fall away" ([Alma
23:6](/scriptures/bofm/alma/23.6?lang=eng#5)).

When Alma the Elder established the Church, he consecrated worthy men as their
priests and teachers who "did watch over their people, and did nourish them
with things pertaining to righteousness" ([Mosiah
23:18](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/23.18?lang=eng#17)).

Parents play an essential role in helping their children to understand the
things pertaining to righteousness. In the Book of Mormon we find that Alma
the Younger, being grieved because of the iniquity, the wars, and the
contentions that existed and distressed by the hardness of heart of his
people, "caused that his sons should be gathered together, that he might give
unto them every one his charge, separately, _concerning the things pertaining
unto righteousness_" ([Alma 35:16](/scriptures/bofm/alma/35.16?lang=eng#15);
emphasis added).

It is interesting to notice that he taught and gave his children their charge
separately, adapting his instructions to each son, according to that son's
needs. He bore testimony and taught them doctrine and principles, preparing
them to preach those same principles to others.

In a time when the family is under attack from the forces of evil and when the
conditions in which we live are not so very different from those that Alma
experienced, the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve have set forth
in "The Family: A Proclamation to the World" that "parents have a sacred duty
to rear their children in love and righteousness" (_Liahona,_ Oct. 2004, 49;
_Ensign,_ Nov. 1995, 102).

This includes nurturing, supporting, and teaching children _in all things
pertaining to righteousness_ so that they may remain firm, with their "loins
girt about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, and [their]
feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace" ([D&amp;C
27:16](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.16?lang=eng#15)).

Just as in the times of Alma, our leaders also watch over the members of the
Church and nourish them with _things pertaining to righteousness._ Those
things will help us to achieve an enduring conversion. In the document
"Leadership Training Emphasis," revised December 10, 2009, the First
Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve ask that both priesthood and auxiliary
leaders "encourage each family member, parents and children, to study the
scriptures, pray regularly, and live the gospel of Jesus Christ" (First
Presidency letter, Dec. 15, 2009).

Studying the scriptures, praying regularly, and living the gospel of Jesus
Christ are works of righteousness, and the Lord has revealed this wonderful
promise: "He who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward,
even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come" ([D&amp;C
59:23](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.23?lang=eng#22)).

In order to more effectively teach the _things pertaining to righteousness,_
it is important to understand that, in addition to imparting information, we
must facilitate revelation. This way, the person being taught can feel the
desire to know these principles for himself or herself.

The Lord revealed to Hyrum Smith through his brother the Prophet Joseph Smith:

"I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which
shall fill your soul with joy;

"And then shall ye know ... all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are
pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you
shall receive" ([D&amp;C 11:13-14](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/11.13-14?lang=eng#12)).

In conclusion, the scriptures warn us of the danger of dying as to things
pertaining to righteousness and of the serious consequences this has for those
who, having been enlightened by the Spirit of God, fall into sin and
transgression.

Teaching the _things pertaining to righteousness_ is an important element in
helping people come to a knowledge of the truth, be converted, and remain firm
in the faith of Christ unto the end.

Parents have the sacred duty to teach their children regarding _things
pertaining to righteousness._ Leaders and teachers can watch over and nourish
the members under their care, diligently teaching them all _things pertaining
to righteousness._

This can be achieved more effectively if revelation is facilitated during the
teaching process, thus creating in the people the desire to be enlightened by
the Spirit of God. Then as they exercise faith, the Spirit can make known to
them the _things pertaining unto righteousness._ Of these things I testify in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

