# “Thou Shalt Have No Other Gods”

As I face this congregation, I sense the responsibility entrusted to me. As
you face the General Authorities and officers of the Church, you also bear
responsibility. We are all accountable for acting upon the truths that are
taught.

Facing you, I am reminded of military days long ago when our platoon heard
shouts from a sergeant: "Attention!" "Right face!" "Left face!" "About face!"
We learned to respond to those orders with instant precision. In retrospect, I
don't recall ever having heard his command to "face upward." Yet scriptures
tell us to "look to God and live." [1]

My topic today relates to the first of the Lord's Ten Commandments: "Thou
shalt have no other gods before me." [2]  This commandment may be better known
than obeyed. May I share a suggestion that I have found useful in testing my
own allegiance to this commandment? When confronted with a challenging choice,
I ask myself, "Which way do you face?"

## Life without Looking to God

Sadly, many individuals don't know where to find God, and exclude Him from
their lives. When spiritual needs arise, they may look to the left, the right,
or round about. But looking to other people on the same level cannot satisfy
spiritual shortages. When the immortal spirit is starved, hunger persists for
something more filling. Even when material success comes, there is a hollow
ache--if living well falls short of living worthily. Inner peace cannot be
found in affluence accompanied by spiritual privation.

## Invitation to Come to the Lord

Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints invite all to come
unto Christ and enjoy the spiritual feast that His gospel provides. The Saints
savor a sweet spiritual nourishment that sustains them through life. This
sustenance comes because they have made covenants to take upon themselves the
name of the Lord and strive to obey his precepts. Strength comes in
recognizing and in being grateful for the Lord's gifts of immortality and the
opportunity for eternal life.

## Loyal Citizens

These gifts are available to all. Citizens of many countries claim membership
in the Church. Regardless of their flag or form of government, they find that
allegiance to the Lord does not preclude their being loyal citizens of their
nations. Fidelity to God enables one to develop a more profound patriotic
allegiance and become a better citizen.

In addition to their national citizenship, members of the Church are also
citizens of God's kingdom. [3]  Their commitment to it, however, may be
variable. The great majority seek "first to build up the kingdom of God, and
to establish his righteousness." [4]  Some allow their allegiance to God and
His kingdom to slip below that of other interests in life. They have not yet
determined which way they face. [5]

## Representatives of the Lord

I perceived such confusion in the mind of a newspaper reporter who asked one
of our leaders when a representative of such-and-such a country would become a
General Authority. While that question was being answered, I thought about our
beloved General Authorities born in the countries of Asia; of Europe; of
North, Central, and South America; and of the islands of the sea. Though these
Brethren come from many nations and speak several tongues, not one of them was
called to represent his native country. Presiding quorums of the Church are
not representative assemblies. Each leader has been called to face the people
as a representative of the Lord, not the other way around.

General Authorities are "called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of
hands by those who are in authority." [6]  They are called as "especial
witnesses" [7]  unto _all_ the world, to teach and testify of the Lord Jesus
Christ. [8]

## Obeying Commandments of the Lord

No matter where we live or in what position we serve, all of us need to
determine which way we face. God's commandments serve as a standard against
which priorities can be measured. Our respect for the first commandment
fashions our feelings for all the others. Consider the commandment to keep the
Sabbath day holy, for example. [9]  We live in a time when many people
throughout the world have transferred their allegiance on the Sabbath from
places of worship to places of amusement. Again I ask, "Which way do you
face?" [10]

Scriptures give us encouragement to do right: "If thou turn away ... from doing
thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the
Lord, ... and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own
pleasure, ...

"Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord." [11]

Self-esteem is also earned by obedience to God's commandments regarding
chastity. [12]  Yet in our day those commands have been attacked and
trivialized. The morality of self-discipline with appropriate "denial or
restraint has been popularly depicted as unhealthy and dehumanizing." The
truth is, "it is dehumanizing to define ourselves by our desires alone." [13]
Each human being is a child of God--created in His image--with natural
appetites to control.

If we break God's first commandment, we cannot escape retribution. If we allow
any other person or cause to come before allegiance to Him, we will reap a
bitter harvest. Paul foresaw "destruction" for those "whose God is their
belly." [14]  (I might include all forms of anatomical affection.) Any who
choose to serve "the creature more than the Creator" [15]  deprive themselves
of spiritual reward.

Thus, our priorities should be honestly evaluated in terms of that first
commandment. If change in direction is needed, we may want to issue a self-
command to "about face!" Doing so would please the Lord, who said, "Repent,
and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces from all your
abominations." [16]

Trees reach up for the light and grow in the process. So do we as sons and
daughters of heavenly parents. Facing upward provides a loftier perspective
than facing right or facing left. Looking up in search of holiness builds
strength and dignity as disciples of Deity. [17]

## Facing Our Families

Facing upward is crucial for successful parenting. Families deserve guidance
from heaven. Parents cannot counsel children adequately from personal
experience, fear, or sympathy. [18]  But when parents face children as would
the Creator who gave them life, parents will be endowed with wisdom beyond
that of their own. Wise mothers and fathers will teach members of their family
how to make personal decisions based upon divine law. [19]  They will teach
them that "this life is the time ... to prepare to meet God." [20]  They will
teach them that decisions of a moral and spiritual character _cannot_ be based
on freedom to choose without accountability to God for those choices. [21]
With that understanding, parents and children will be rewarded with strength
of character, peace of mind, joy, and rejoicing in their posterity. [22]

## Facing Our Neighbors

Similarly, relationships with neighbors, friends, and associates will be
enhanced as we approach them with "the pure love of Christ." [23]  A desire to
emulate the Lord provides powerful motivation for good. Our craving for
compassion will cause us to act in accord with the Golden Rule. [24]  By so
doing, we will find joy in feeding the poor, clothing the naked, or doing
volunteer work of worth.

Service to neighbors takes on new stature when we first look to God. In the
Church, when priesthood and auxiliary leaders face their congregations,
quorums, and classes as would the Lord, they learn that it does not matter
_where_ they serve, but _how._ Position in the Church does not exalt anyone,
but faithfulness does. On the other hand, aspiring to a visible position--
striving to become a master rather than a servant--can destroy the spirit of
the worker and the work.

Occasionally confusion exists regarding servants and masters. The Bible
reports that a group of men "had disputed among themselves, who should be the
greatest" among them. Jesus said, "If any man desire to be first, the same
shall be last of all, and _servant of all._" [25]

Was Jesus asking His disciples to respond to random requests from the crowd or
to serve tables? [26]  No! He was asking them to serve in _His_ way. The
people were not to be masters of his disciples. The _Lord_ is their Master.

In rendering service to others, which way do we face? From the right or the
left, we can only push or pull. We can lift only from a higher plane. To reach
it we don't look sideways; we look up to our Master. Just as we must look to
God to _live_ well, so we must look to God to _serve_ well.

## Attitudes of Effective Disciples

If we are called to positions of leadership, we are accountable to the Savior
for the acts we perform in that office. Those actions are shaped by attitudes,
and attitudes are elevated while lowering our heads in humble prayer. So state
words in the hymn "Before Thee, Lord, I Bow My Head":

_Look up, my soul; be not cast down._

_Keep not thine eyes upon the ground._

_Break off the shackles of the earth._

_Receive, my soul, the spirit's birth._

_And now as I go forth again_

_To mingle with my fellowmen,_

_Stay thou nearby, my steps to guide,_

_That I may in thy love abide._ [27]

Praying helps us to face trials in life. Prayer centers our attitudes
precisely. With that focus, we do not wander to the right or left through land
mined with traps of temptation. Disciples do not flirt with danger at the
jagged edge of disaster. Experienced mountain climbers do not lean toward the
dangerous edge but toward safety, with ropes and other safeguards to secure
them to those they trust. So it is with us. When we climb mountainous
challenges of life, we should lean toward our Master and be yoked with him,
clinging tightly to the iron rod of the gospel, to family, and to trusted
friends.

President David O. McKay taught this about edges: "Many of us through
selfishness are lingering near the edge of the animal jungle where Nature's
law demands us to do everything with self in view." [28]

The Lord said, "Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not." [29]  I
have learned that such faith gives emancipating power. Facing God first lets
us decide firmly what we shall not do; then we are free to pursue what we
ought to do.

Recently, President Gordon B. Hinckley declared: "Love of God is the root of
all virtue, of all goodness, of all strength of character, of all fidelity to
do right. Love the Lord your God, and love his Son, and be ever grateful for
their love for us. Whenever other love fades, there will be that shining,
transcendent, everlasting love of God for each of us and the love of his Son,
who gave his life for us." [30]

Brothers and sisters, race, nationality, occupation, or other interests need
not stand in the way. All can look to the Lord. All can place him first in
their lives. Those who do so and remain faithful will qualify for his sublime
promise:" [31]  "Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and
calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall
see my face and know that I am." [32]  This glorious destiny can be ours, I so
testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.   [Alma 37:47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.47?lang=eng#46); see also [Ps. 5:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/5.3?lang=eng#2); [Alma 5:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.19?lang=eng#18); [Alma 37:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.37?lang=eng#36).

  2.   [Ex. 20:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.3?lang=eng#2); see also [D&amp;C 20:17-19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.17-19?lang=eng#16).

  3.  See [Eph. 2:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/2.19?lang=eng#18).

  4.  JST, Matt. 6:38.

  5.  See [Joel 3:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/joel/3.14?lang=eng#13).

  6.   [A of F 1:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.5?lang=eng#4).

  7.   [D&amp;C 107:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.25?lang=eng#24).

  8.  What they speak "when moved upon by the Holy Ghost" represents the will of the Lord, the mind of the Lord, and the word of the Lord ([D&amp;C 68:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/68.4?lang=eng#3)).

  9.  Among the many, see [Ex. 20:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.8?lang=eng#7); [Ex. 31:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/31.15?lang=eng#14); [Ex. 35:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/35.2?lang=eng#1); [Lev. 23:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/23.3?lang=eng#2); [Jarom 1:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jarom/1.5?lang=eng#4); [Mosiah 13:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/13.16?lang=eng#15); [Mosiah 18:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.23?lang=eng#22); [D&amp;C 68:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/68.29?lang=eng#28).

  10.  See [1 Kgs. 18:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/18.21?lang=eng#20).

  11.   [Isa. 58:13-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/58.13-14?lang=eng#12).

  12.  Some of the many are [Ex. 20:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.14?lang=eng#13); [Lev. 18:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/18.22?lang=eng#21); [Matt. 5:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.28?lang=eng#27); [1 Cor. 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/6.9?lang=eng#8); [3 Ne. 12:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.28?lang=eng#27); [D&amp;C 42:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.24?lang=eng#23); [D&amp;C 59:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.6?lang=eng#5).

  13.  Report of the Ramsey Colloquium,_ Wall Street Journal,_ 24 Feb. 1994, A-18.

  14.   [Philip. 3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/3.19?lang=eng#18).

  15.   [Rom. 1:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/1.25?lang=eng#24).

  16.   [Ezek. 14:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezek/14.6?lang=eng#5).

  17.  The importance of looking up to the Lord is also emphasized in a vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith, dated 21 January 1836: "I saw the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now upon the earth, who hold the keys of this last ministry, in foreign lands, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold Him. The Savior looked upon them and wept" (_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ sel. Joseph Fielding Smith [1976], 107). That the Twelve were subsequently vindicated is apparent as we read further in the Prophet's record: "And I finally saw the Twelve in the celestial kingdom of God. I also beheld the redemption of Zion, and many things which the tongue of men cannot describe in full" (_Teachings,_ 108).

  18.  See [Prov. 3:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/3.5?lang=eng#4).

  19.  See [D&amp;C 130:20-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.20-21?lang=eng#19), which teaches that any blessing from God is obtained by obedience to that law upon which the blessing is predicated.

  20.  See [Alma 34:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.32?lang=eng#31).

  21.  See [D&amp;C 101:78](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.78?lang=eng#77).

  22.  JST, Gen. 9:22 adds this insight: "When thy posterity shall embrace the truth, and look upward, then shall Zion look downward, and all the heavens shall shake with gladness, and the earth shall tremble with joy."

  23.   [Moro. 7:47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.47?lang=eng#46).

  24.  "Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them" ([Matt. 7:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.12?lang=eng#11)).

  25.   [Mark 9:34-35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/9.34-35?lang=eng#33); emphasis added. Another gospel writer phrased that truth in a similar way: "He that is greatest among you shall be your servant" ([Matt. 23:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/23.11?lang=eng#10)). In these scriptures, the word _servant_ comes from the Greek noun _diakonos,_ which means "one who executes the commands of another, especially of a master." _Diakonos_ is the Greek word from which the English word _deacon_ is derived.

  26.  See [Acts 6:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/6.2?lang=eng#1).

  27.   _Hymns,_ no. 158.

  28.   _Improvement Era,_ June 1957, 390. President James E. Faust issued this solemn warning: "Living on the edge can also mean being perilously close to the Bottomless Pit. ... "Some of you may think that you will discover your strengths and abilities by living on the edge. ... There will always be enough risks that will come to you naturally without your having to seek them out" (_Ensign,_ Nov. 1995, 46).

  29.   [D&amp;C 6:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.36?lang=eng#35).

  30.  Ricks College regional conference, 29 Oct. 1995; reported in _Church News,_ 2 Mar. 1996, 2.

  31.  He has also given many others, among which are: "Blessed are you; for as you now behold me and know that I am, even so shall ye come unto me and your souls shall live" ([D&amp;C 45:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.46?lang=eng#45)). "I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up" ([D&amp;C 84:88](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.88?lang=eng#87)).

  32.   [D&amp;C 93:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.1?lang=eng#0).

