# How Firm Our Foundation

About two decades ago when a temple was to be built in Mexico City, architects
faced a great challenge. Because Mexico City is situated on a basin over
water, some of its buildings settle and become tilted with the passage of
time. Construction of a temple there required a special foundation. Two
hundred twenty-one large, reinforced concrete piles [1]  were driven more than
100 feet deep into the ground. Onto those pilings, steel straps were anchored
and fastened to a unit that can be adjusted if need be to keep the building
level. [2]  With this unseen but sure foundation, that temple today stands
steady and straight.

A firm foundation is necessary for any building, institution, or individual to
endure. With that in mind, let us consider the foundation of The Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then let us see how the solid foundation of
the Church supports our foundation of faith as individual members of the
Church.

## I. Foundation of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

This Church stands on a unique foundation, anchored to a bedrock of timeless
truth. Brothers and sisters, the holy cause in which we are engaged did not
begin in 1820 in the state of New York. It did not begin in Bethlehem. It did
not begin in the Garden of Eden. The underpinnings of the everlasting gospel
were in place even before the world was.

This reality is affirmed repeatedly in holy writ. I have studied the
scriptures pertaining to that part of eternity before the earth was formed.
Don't worry. I won't quote them all. But I will append some of those citations
to the published text of this message. These unseen and timeless truths
constitute "premortal pillars" that undergird the foundation of this Church.

_The Plan of Redemption and Possibility of an Inheritance in the Kingdom of
God_

Before the foundation of the earth, the plan of salvation was prepared. [3]
It included the glorious possibility of a divine inheritance in the kingdom of
God. [4]

_The Atonement of Jesus Christ_

Central to that plan was the Atonement of Jesus Christ. In premortal councils,
He was foreordained by His Father to atone for our sins and break the bands of
physical and spiritual death. [5]  Jesus declared, "I ... was prepared from the
foundation of the world to redeem my people. ... In me shall all mankind have
life, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name." [6]  Later,
Paul added that the Church is "built upon the foundation of the apostles and
prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone." [7]

_Opposition from the Adversary_

Even before the world was formed, the Lord was opposed by Satan. [8]  He and
his minions have always fought against the Savior's sacred work and will
continue to do so.

_Foreordination for and Conferral of the Priesthood_

Before the foundation of the world, each of us existed as spirit children with
our Father in Heaven. Among us were noble and great men foreordained to bear
the priesthood. [9]  Abraham, [10]  Jeremiah, [11]  Joseph Smith, [12]  and
others [13]  were destined to become prophets of God. Also foreseen was that
the blood of prophets would be shed in this holy cause. [14]  The manner of
conferring the priesthood was to come down from the fathers "from the
beginning of time, ... even ... before the foundation of the earth." [15]

_Sisters Empowered to Glorify God_

Sisters received special gifts. They, according to the Lord, were empowered
"to multiply and replenish the earth, according to my commandment, and to
fulfil the promise which was given by my Father before the foundation of the
world, ... for their exaltation in the eternal worlds, that they may bear the
souls of men; ... herein is the work of my Father continued, that he may be
glorified." [16]  Think of it: When a mother bears and cares for a child, she
not only helps the earth answer the end of its creation, [17]  but she
glorifies God!

_Children of the Covenant_

Children of the covenant were designated in the premortal realm. Paul taught
that the Lord "hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world." [18]

_Blessings Predicated upon Obedience to Law_

Then conditions were established that allowed us to receive blessings from God
--upon obedience to laws upon which those blessings were predicated. [19]

_Sacred Things to Be Revealed in the Latter Days_

Another pillar pertains to revelation reserved for the latter days. The Lord
had long planned to reveal "things which have been kept secret from the
foundation of the world." [20]  Those things included revelations recorded in
the Book of Mormon. [21]  They also included ordinances and covenants of the
holy temple. [22]  To the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord declared that "I deign
to reveal unto my church things which have been kept hid from before the
foundation of the world, things that pertain to the dispensation of the
fulness of times." [23]

_Redemption of the Dead_

The Lord revealed that "the ordinance of baptizing for the dead ... was
instituted from before the foundation of the world." [24]  Salvation was thus
made available for those "who should die without a knowledge of the gospel."
[25]  A welding link between generations was provided, that a whole, complete,
and perfect union of dispensations, keys, powers, and glories should take
place. [26]

Brothers and sisters, these unseen but sure pillars were in place before the
world was. They undergird the everlasting gospel--now restored in its fulness.
[27]  With such a foundation, this Church will not be moved from its place,
[28]  even through the Millennium. [29]

## II. Foundation of Individual Members of the Church

Just as buildings and institutions have foundations, so do we as individuals
have foundations that support our faith. Some are weak; some are strong. We
can waffle "like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed," [30]  or
we can stand on a firm foundation and anchor ourselves with straps of
spiritual steel, rooted and grounded to the timeless pillars of the gospel.
[31]

President Gordon B. Hinckley has asked that our new converts be sustained in
the Church by a friend, a call to serve, and be nourished by the good word of
God. [32]  Often we sing, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, Is
laid for your faith in his excellent word!" [33]  When we receive that
nurturing word of God, we feast upon His love. [34]

Remember: "It is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God,
that ye must build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his
mighty winds, ... when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it
shall have no power ... to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless wo,
because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation." [35]

Even firm foundations cannot prevent life's problems. Wayward children cause
parents to grieve. Some broken families don't get fixed. Gender disorientation
is poorly understood. Married couples, for whatever reason, may not be blessed
with children. Even in our day, "the guilty and the wicked go unpunished
because of their money." [36]  Some things just don't seem fair. [37]

With strong underpinnings, however, we are better able to reach upward for
help, even when faced with questions without easy answers. The poet so wrote:

_Who Thou art I know not,_

_But this much I know:_

_Thou hast set the Pleiades_

_In a silver row;_

_Thou hast sent the trackless winds_

_Loose upon their way;_

_Thou hast reared a colored wall_

_'Twixt the night and day;_

_Thou hast made the flowers to bloom_

_And the stars to shine;_

_Hid rare gems of richest ore_

_In the tunneled mine;_

_But chief of all Thy wondrous works,_

_Supreme of all Thy plan,_

_Thou hast put an upward reach_

_In the heart of Man._ [38]

Though we don't know all things, [39]  we know that God lives and that He
loves us. [40]  Standing on that firm foundation, we can reach up and find
strength to endure the heavy burdens of life.

For example, I honor those special souls who face challenges of parenthood
with unwavering faith in their Maker. To a family dear to Sister Nelson and
me, a son was recently born. This child was afflicted with multiple anomalies
affecting virtually every system of his little body. Two operations were
required in his first week of life. More will be necessary. When I spoke with
the child's parents, they did not ask, "Why did this happen to us?" Instead,
they declared: "We know that this child is meant for us. God has entrusted
this special baby to us. We will love him and care for him to the best of our
ability." Thank the Lord for such parents!

Not long ago, death came to the husband of a friend of ours, suddenly and
without warning. Of her, these words were penned by her own sister: "Searching
the years and days just past, she is awestruck, recognizing specific skills
and experiences put into her life by a loving Father, things that might have
seemed circumstantial at the time but that have specifically prepared her to
cope successfully with this heart-breaking loss. Rather than feeling abandoned
and bitter, she feels cradled and cared for. ... She said to me, 'When I see how
carefully Heavenly Father has prepared and planned for my present
circumstance, how can I be frightened about my future? Surely He is putting
into place today all that I will need to face the unknown times ahead.'" [41]

From a missionary I received an unforgettable letter. He wrote: "I still am
not certain why it was that I was [afflicted] with [cancer], particularly
during the time I was serving the Lord on a mission, but I can say with all
honesty and sincerity that I am eternally grateful to our gracious Heavenly
Father for allowing me to have that experience. ... Not a day goes by," he
continued, "that I don't think about the days I spent lying in the hospital
suffering through chemotherapy or grimacing with the pain from another
operation. ... Not a day passes when I don't think of the days I spent studying
the scriptures, particularly the Book of Mormon, and remembering the
overwhelming feelings of comfort and peace which I felt. I often think of the
nights when I would retire to bed and pour out my soul to my Heavenly Father
and thank Him for preserving my life." Then the elder shared this wonderful
news: "I returned to the doctor this week ... and ... he found no evidence of any
disease in my body." [42]  I love such faithful missionaries!

How firm our foundation? The foundation of this Church was forged long before
the world was. It is strong. It is true. It is eternal. The foundation of
one's individual faith, if anchored firmly to eternal truth, allows each of us
to reach upward with an eternal perspective. [43]  That faith will give hope
when there is no hope. It will give us joy here and eternal life hereafter. I
so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.  Each pile was 18 inches in diameter.

  2.  See John Forres O'Donnal, _Pioneer in Guatemala _(1997), 288.

  3.  See [1 Ne. 10:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.18?lang=eng#17); [Mosiah 15:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/15.19?lang=eng#18); [Alma 12:25, 30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.25%2C30?lang=eng#24); [Alma 18:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/18.39?lang=eng#38); [Alma 22:13-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/22.13-14?lang=eng#12); [Alma 42:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.26?lang=eng#25); [D&amp;C 76:12-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.12-13?lang=eng#11).

  4.  To people of the Old World, the Lord said, "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world" ([Matt. 25:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.34?lang=eng#33)). People of ancient America were also taught that "they who have believed in the Holy One of Israel ... shall inherit the kingdom of God, which was prepared for them from the foundation of the world" ([2 Ne. 9:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.18?lang=eng#17); see also [Ether 4:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/4.19?lang=eng#18)).

  5.  See [John 17:5, 24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.5%2C24?lang=eng#4); [1 Pet. 1:19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/1.19-20?lang=eng#18); [Mosiah 4:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.6-7?lang=eng#5); [Mosiah 18:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.13?lang=eng#12); [3 Ne. 26:3-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/26.3-5?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C 93:7-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.7-9?lang=eng#6); [Moses 5:57](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.57?lang=eng#56); JST, Gen. 5:43; JST, Gen. 14:30-31.

  6.   [Ether 3:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/3.14?lang=eng#13).

  7.   [Eph. 2:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/2.20?lang=eng#19).

  8.  See JST, Rev. 12:6-8.

  9.  See [Alma 13:3, 5, 7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.3%2C5%2C7?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C 132:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.28?lang=eng#27); [D&amp;C 138:55-56](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.55-56?lang=eng#54); [Abr. 3:22-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.22-23?lang=eng#21).

  10.  See [Abr. 3:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.23?lang=eng#22).

  11.  See [Jer. 1:4-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/1.4-5?lang=eng#3).

  12.  See [2 Ne. 3:5-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.5-15?lang=eng#4); [D&amp;C 127:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/127.2?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 138:53-55](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.53-55?lang=eng#52).

  13.  See [D&amp;C 138:53](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.53?lang=eng#52).

  14.  See [Luke 11:49-51](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/11.49-51?lang=eng#48).

  15.   [Abr. 1:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/1.3?lang=eng#2).

  16.   [D&amp;C 132:63](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.63?lang=eng#62).

  17.  See [D&amp;C 49:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/49.16-17?lang=eng#15).

  18.   [Eph. 1:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/1.4?lang=eng#3); see also [Eph. 1:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/1.5?lang=eng#4). Paul also taught that the power of God "who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, ... was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began" ([2 Tim. 1:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/1.9?lang=eng#8); see also [D&amp;C 38:1-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/38.1-4?lang=eng#0); [Abr. 3:22-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.22-26?lang=eng#21)). It is important to note that the Book of Mormon serves "to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord" (Book of Mormon, title page).

  19.  See [D&amp;C 130:20-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.20-21?lang=eng#19); [D&amp;C 132:5, 11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.5%2C11-12?lang=eng#4).

  20.   [Matt. 13:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/13.35?lang=eng#34).

  21.  See [2 Ne. 27:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/27.10?lang=eng#9).

  22.  See [D&amp;C 124:40-41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.40-41?lang=eng#39).

  23.   [D&amp;C 124:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.41?lang=eng#40).

  24.   [D&amp;C 124:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.33?lang=eng#32).

  25.   [D&amp;C 128:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.5?lang=eng#4).

  26.  See [D&amp;C 128:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.18?lang=eng#17).

  27.  See [Acts 3:20-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/3.20-21?lang=eng#19).

  28.  See [Dan. 2:28, 31-44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/dan/2.28%2C31-44?lang=eng#27); [D&amp;C 65:2-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/65.2-6?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 124:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.45?lang=eng#44).

  29.  See Bruce R. McConkie, _The Millennial Messiah_ (1982), 672.

  30.   [James 1:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.6?lang=eng#5).

  31.  See [Eph. 3:17-19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/3.17-19?lang=eng#16); [Col. 2:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/2.6-7?lang=eng#5).

  32.  See "Some Thoughts on Temples, Retention of Converts, and Missionary Service," _Ensign,_ Nov. 1997, 51; also [Jacob 6:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/6.7?lang=eng#6); [Moro. 6:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.4?lang=eng#3).

  33.   _Hymns,_ no. 85; see also [2 Ne. 28:27-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.27-30?lang=eng#26).

  34.  See [Jacob 3:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/3.2?lang=eng#1).

  35.   [Hel. 5:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.12?lang=eng#11). Remember also that a wise man builds his house upon a rock and not upon shifting sand (see [Matt. 7:24-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.24-27?lang=eng#23)).

  36.   [Hel. 7:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/7.5?lang=eng#4).

  37.  Whether things seem "fair" relate to the limits of one's perspective. Paul taught, "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" ([1 Cor. 15:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.19?lang=eng#18)).

  38.  Harry Kemp, "God the Architect," in James Dalton Morrison, ed.,_ Masterpieces of Religious Verse_ (1948), 46-47.

  39.  Compared with the omniscience of our Creator, we know relatively little about dinosaurs or the details of the Creation, for example. But this we do know: "Verily I say unto you, in that day when the Lord shall come, he shall reveal all things--things which have passed, and hidden things which no man knew, things of the earth, by which it was made, and the purpose and the end thereof--things most precious, things that are above, and things that are beneath, things that are in the earth, and upon the earth, and in heaven" ([D&amp;C 101:32-34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.32-34?lang=eng#31); see also [D&amp;C 121:29-32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.29-32?lang=eng#28)).

  40.  See [1 Ne. 11:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.16-17?lang=eng#15).

  41.  Virginia H. Pearce, in _Why I Believe_ (2002), 245-46.

  42.  Personal correspondence, 15 Jan. 2002.

  43.  Our mortal probation has been likened to the second act of a three-act play. When the curtain comes down on act two, the play is not over. Without the vision gained from acts one and three, the second act could seem either too short, too long, too hard, or too confusing. When we know about all three acts, the second act acquires greater significance. Thus the need for an eternal perspective.

