# “The Standard of Truth Has Been Erected”

It is my purpose to explain to the youth and young adults, and to their
parents, why we hold so rigidly to high standards of moral conduct; why we
avoid addictive drugs and tea, coffee, alcohol, and tobacco; why we teach
standards of modesty in dress, grooming, and speech. [1]  You need to know
where our standards came from and why we cannot loosen up and follow what the
world does.

You have agency--"moral agency." [2]  You are free to choose your standards.

You will understand better if I speak of scripture and doctrine rather than
about behavior.

The Church you belong to, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is
the restored Church. [3]  When you know what _restored_ means, you will
understand why standards of conduct are as they are.

Following the Crucifixion of Christ an apostasy occurred. Leaders began to
"teach for doctrines the commandments of men." [4]  They lost the keys of
authority and closed themselves off from the channels of revelation. That lost
authority could not just be repossessed. It had to be restored by those who
held the keys of authority anciently. [5]

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not a remodeled version of
another church. It is not an adjustment or a correction or a protest against
any other church. They have their "form of godliness" [6]  and their goodness
and value.

John the Baptist returned through the veil to confer the Aaronic Priesthood,
"which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of
repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins." [7]  A
companion ordinance, confirmation and the conferral of the gift of the Holy
Ghost, required a greater authority. [8]

Soon thereafter, Peter, James, and John, Apostle companions of the Lord,
restored the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood [9] --"the Holy Priesthood,
after the Order of the Son of God." [10]

The Restoration did not come all at once. In a series of visitations, other
prophets came to restore the keys of the priesthood. [11]

With the authority restored, the organization was revealed. Apostles were
ordained, and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and First Presidency were
organized as they had been anciently. [12]  The ordinances were revealed and
authority given to perform them.

The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ was translated and
published. In it is "the fulness of [the] everlasting gospel." [13]

Other revelations were published--the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of
Great Price. From those books of scripture, we learned why the earth was
created and who created it. [14]  There was opened to the early leaders of the
Church the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the _standards_ He
requires of His disciples.

We learned about the plan of redemption--"the great plan of happiness." [15]
We came to earth to be tested and to gain experience, with a promise that
"through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to
the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." [16]

Before we came into mortal life, we lived as spirit children of our Father in
Heaven. [17]  "All human beings--male and female--are created in the image of
God. Each [of you] is a beloved spirit son or daughter of heavenly parents,
and, as such, [you have] a divine nature and destiny. Gender [male and female]
is an essential characteristic of individual premortal, mortal, and eternal
identity and purpose." [18]

The great plan of happiness enables family relationships to last beyond the
grave. Sacred ordinances and covenants, available only in the temple, make it
possible for individuals to return to the presence of God and for families to
be united eternally. Marriage, the family, and the home are the foundation of
the Church. [19]  Nothing is more important to the Church and to civilization
itself than the family!

For some all is not complete in mortal life, for marriage and a family of
their own have passed them by. But the great plan of happiness and the laws
which govern it continue after death. Watched over by a kind and loving
Heavenly Father, they will not, in the eternal pattern of things, be denied
blessings necessary for their exaltation, including marriage and family. And
it will be sweeter still because of the waiting and the longing.

We learned from the revelations that we do not have to tell you young people
what is right and what is wrong with regard to morality and marriage. The
prophet Lehi taught his youthful children that "men are instructed
sufficiently that they know good from evil." [20]

Because the power to create a mortal body is essential to our happiness and
exaltation, the Lord has decreed severe penalties against the immoral use of
that power to beget life. [21]

Satan knows that if he can corrupt the process of mating and cause men and
women to degrade it in immoral acts, he will, to that degree, for them disrupt
the plan of happiness.

Paul taught, "God ... will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able;
but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to
bear it." [22]

I do not wish to offend the delicate feelings of you wonderful young people,
but in your world awash with iniquity, you must be on guard.

There are words we would rather not say. They describe things that we would
rather not think about. But you are inescapably exposed to temptations in
connection with fornication, adultery, pornography, prostitution, perversion,
lust, abuse, the unnatural, and all that grows from them.

Only with difficulty can you escape the degrading profanity and wicked, joking
humor that accompanies them. It is all paraded before you in unworthy
entertainment--music, print, drama, film, television, and, of course, the
Internet.

Remember the First Vision when young Joseph knelt in the grove. Immediately
thick darkness gathered around him. He was seized by the power of the enemy,
an actual being from the unseen world. He did what every one of you can do. He
called upon God, and the evil power left him. [23]

There is great power in prayer. As a son or a daughter of God, you can, as
Joseph did, pray to God in the name of Jesus Christ for strength. [24]

Satan, with his angels, will try to capture your thoughts and control what you
do. If he can, he will corrupt anything that is good. [25]  To him the
Internet is just that--a net to ensnare you into wicked addiction with
pornography. Unhappiness will follow. [26]

Some work through political, social, and legal channels to redefine morality
and marriage into something unrestrained, unnatural, and forbidden. But they
never can change the design which has governed human life and happiness from
the beginning. The deceiver preys upon some passion or tendency or weakness.
He convinces them that the condition cannot be changed and recruits them for
activities for which they never would volunteer.

But sooner or later that spark of divinity in each of them will ignite. They
can assert their agency as sons and daughters created in the image of God [27]
and renounce the destroyer. That which they had been led to believe could not
be changed, will be changed, and they will feel the power of the redemption of
Christ. [28]  Their burden will be lifted and the pain healed up. [29]  That
is what the Atonement of Christ is all about.

They can claim their inheritance as children of heavenly parents and, despite
the tortured, agonizing test of mortal life, know that they are not lost.

In the Church, one is not condemned for tendencies or temptations. One is held
accountable for transgression. [30]  If you do not act on unworthy
persuasions, you will neither be condemned nor be subject to Church
discipline.

We do not set the standards, but we are commanded to teach them and maintain
them. The standard remains abstinence before marriage and total fidelity in
marriage. However out of step we may seem, however much the standards are
belittled, however much others yield, we will not yield, we cannot yield.
Obedience to the moral standard and observance of the Word of Wisdom will
remain as requirements for ordination to the priesthood, for a mission, and
for a temple recommend.

You had conferred upon you the gift of the Holy Ghost. There will be
whisperings of approval or warning when you have decisions to make. [31]  The
Holy Ghost can guide you away from evil and bring you back if you have
wandered and lost your path. Never forget that you are sons and daughters of
God. Satan cannot forever imprison you. You always hold the key of repentance
to unlock the prison door.

If you, our youth, feel alone, remember there are millions of you in the
Church now. Tens of thousands of you at this moment serve missions. You are a
visible example, a testimony of the Restoration, even to those who will not
listen to your message. Wherever you are--in school, at work or play, in the
military--you are never alone.

Now words can be used as weapons against you. If they throw the word
_diversity_ at you, grab hold of it and say, "I am already diverse, and I
intend to stay diverse." If the word is _tolerance,_ grab that one, too,
saying, "I expect you to be tolerant of my lifestyle--obedience, integrity,
abstinence, repentance." If the word is _choice,_ tell them you choose good,
old-fashioned morality. You choose to be a worthy husband or wife, a worthy
parent.

The whole Church may stand alone in defense of these standards. But we are not
the first. Moroni, the last of his people, said: "I even remain alone. ... I
fulfil the commandment of my father." [32]  Do not be afraid. [33]

When I was young and very new in my calling, I was sent east to meet with
powerful, prominent officials who were blocking our work. As I left for the
airport, I stopped to see President Harold B. Lee and asked, "Do you have any
parting counsel?"

"Yes," he said, "just remember this isn't 1830, and there aren't just six of
us."

That erased fear. I pled our cause. The problem was resolved.

Society is on a course that has caused the destruction of civilizations and is
now ripening in iniquity. Civilization itself is at stake. You, our wonderful
youth, are an example to untold millions of good people worldwide.

I think of the joy and happiness that await you in this life and the work you
are to do, and I cannot be discouraged.

Peter, the Apostle who stood next to the Lord, said of you, "Ye are a chosen
generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye
should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into
his marvellous light." [34]

Remember this great prophecy:

"The Standard of Truth has been erected; no unhallowed hand can stop the work
from progressing; ... the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and
independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime,
swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall
be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done." [35]

When we were young we used to often sing these words:

_Shall the youth of Zion falter_

_In defending truth and right?_

_While the enemy assaileth,_

_Shall we shrink or shun the fight? No!_

_True to the faith that our parents have cherished,_

_True to the truth for which martyrs have perished,_

_To God's command, Soul, heart, and hand,_

_Faithful and true we will ever stand._

_While we know the pow'rs of darkness_

_Seek to thwart the work of God,_

_Shall the children of the promise_

_Cease to grasp the iron rod? No! ... _

_We will work out our salvation;_

_We will cleave unto the truth;_

_We will watch and pray and labor_

_With the fervent zeal of youth. Yes! ... _

_We will strive to be found worthy_

_Of the kingdom of our Lord,_

_With the faithful ones redeemed_

_Who have loved and kept his word. Yes!_

_True to the faith that our parents have cherished,_

_True to the truth for which martyrs have perished,_

_To God's command, Soul, heart, and hand,_

_Faithful and true we will ever stand._ [36]

God bless you millions of youth in our Church who worthily follow the patterns
of the gospel and have within you a deep testimony--the testimony that all of
us share and bear. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.  See _For the Strength of Youth: Fulfilling Our Duty to God_ (pamphlet, 2001).

  2.   [D&amp;C 101:78](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.78?lang=eng#77).

  3.  See [D&amp;C 115:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/115.4?lang=eng#3).

  4.   [JS--H 1:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.19?lang=eng#18); see also [Matt. 15:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/15.9?lang=eng#8).

  5.  See [D&amp;C 27:12-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.12-13?lang=eng#11).

  6.   [JS--H 1:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.19?lang=eng#18).

  7.   [D&amp;C 13:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/13.1?lang=eng#0).

  8.  See [D&amp;C 20:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.41?lang=eng#40); [D&amp;C 33:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/33.15?lang=eng#14).

  9.  See [D&amp;C 27:12-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.12-13?lang=eng#11); [JS--H 1:72](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.72?lang=eng#71).

  10.   [D&amp;C 107:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.3?lang=eng#2).

  11.  See [D&amp;C 110](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.title?lang=eng).

  12.  See [D&amp;C 18:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.9?lang=eng#8); [D&amp;C 20:1-2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.1-2?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C 107:22, 29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.22%2C29?lang=eng#21).

  13.   [D&amp;C 27:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.5?lang=eng#4).

  14.  See [Moses 1:30-39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.30-39?lang=eng#29).

  15.   [Alma 42:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.8?lang=eng#7); see also [2 Ne. 11:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/11.5?lang=eng#4); [Alma 12:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.25?lang=eng#24); [Alma 17:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/17.16?lang=eng#15); [Alma 34:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 41:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.2?lang=eng#1); [Alma 42:5, 11-13, 15, 31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.5%2C11-13%2C15%2C31?lang=eng#4); [D&amp;C 101:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.22?lang=eng#21); [Moses 6:62](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.62?lang=eng#61).

  16.   [A of F 1:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.3?lang=eng#2).

  17.  See [Num. 16:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/num/16.22?lang=eng#21); [Eccl. 12:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/eccl/12.7?lang=eng#6); [Heb. 12:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/12.9?lang=eng#8).

  18.  "The Family: A Proclamation to the World," _Liahona,_ Oct. 1998, 24; _Ensign,_ Nov. 1995, 102.

  19.  See "The Family: A Proclamation to the World," _Liahona,_ Oct. 1998, 24; _Ensign,_ Nov. 1995, 102.

  20.   [2 Ne. 2:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.5?lang=eng#4).

  21.  See [Jacob 3:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/3.12?lang=eng#11); [D&amp;C 42:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.24?lang=eng#23); [D&amp;C 104:8-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/104.8-9?lang=eng#7).

  22.   [1 Cor. 10:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/10.13?lang=eng#12).

  23.  See [JS--H 1:15-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.15-16?lang=eng#14).

  24.  See [James 4:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/4.7?lang=eng#6).

  25.  See [D&amp;C 10:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/10.22?lang=eng#21); see also [Luke 22:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.3?lang=eng#2); [2 Ne. 2:17-18, 27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.17-18%2C27?lang=eng#16); [3 Ne. 18:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.18?lang=eng#17); [D&amp;C 50:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/50.3?lang=eng#2).

  26.  See [Alma 41:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.10?lang=eng#9).

  27.  See [Gen. 1:26-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/1.26-27?lang=eng#25); [Moses 2:26-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/2.26-27?lang=eng#25); [Moses 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.9?lang=eng#8); [Abr. 4:26-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/4.26-27?lang=eng#25).

  28.  See [2 Ne. 2:1-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.1-6?lang=eng#0).

  29.  See [Alma 7:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11-12?lang=eng#10).

  30.  See [D&amp;C 101:78](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.78?lang=eng#77); [A of F 1:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.2?lang=eng#1).

  31.  See [D&amp;C 8:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/8.2-3?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 9:7-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/9.7-9?lang=eng#6).

  32.   [Morm. 8:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/8.3?lang=eng#2).

  33.  See [2 Tim. 1:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/1.7?lang=eng#6); [D&amp;C 68:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/68.6?lang=eng#5).

  34.   [1 Pet. 2:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/2.9?lang=eng#8).

  35.  Joseph Smith, _History of the Church,_ 4:540.

  36.  "True to the Faith," _Hymns,_ no. 254.

