# The Poetry of Success

Sometime ago I read a very helpful book written by New York psychiatrist
Smiley Blanton, under the title of _The Healing Power of Poetry_ (New York:
Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1960). In his book Dr. Blanton explains how for forty
years he had used great ideas to heal people of their emotional difficulties
and psychiatric problems. These ideas were not all in poetic form. He also
used the great scriptures, the great prose, and the great hymns.

I suppose this healing power of the psychiatrist might be related to the
practice of a medical doctor who writes prescriptions for people to be filled
not at drugstores but at bookstores, for he has discovered that there is
frequently more healing power in books than in bottles. A mother heals the
bumps and bruises of her children by her caresses and her loving expressions
of sympathy.

As I meditated upon these healing procedures, I tried to understand some of
the things that Jesus may have had in mind when he said, "Physician, heal
thyself." ([Luke 4:23](/scriptures/nt/luke/4.23?lang=eng#22).) And I think he
was giving us the detail of one method for handling this healing power when he
instructed Emma Smith to make a selection of the inspiring hymns to be
regularly run through our minds and hearts.

I recently went to the library and obtained a copy of this little book, which
I hold in my hand, which is a compilation of the ninety hymns selected by Emma
Smith for our benefit. (_A Collection of Sacred Hymns, for the Church of the
Latter Day Saints,_ Kirtland, Ohio: F. G. Williams and Co., 1835. Available on
microfilm in the Church Historical Department, Salt Lake City.) And because
each of us has a different set of needs and a different set of interests, it
seems to me that each one of us ought to make his own selection of hymns and
then see to it that each one is thoroughly memorized and enthusiastically
appreciated so that we may get the maximum from their healing message as well
as their growing and saving power.

William James, the great Harvard psychologist, once asked this question, how
would you like to create your own mind? But isn't that about what usually
happens? Professor James explains that the mind is made up by what it feeds
upon. He said that the mind, like the dyer's hand, is colored by what it
holds. If I hold in my hand a sponge full of purple dye, my hand becomes
purple. And if I hold in my mind and heart great ideas of faith and
enthusiasm, my whole personality is changed accordingly.

If we think negative thoughts, we develop negative minds. If we think depraved
thoughts, we develop depraved minds. On the other hand, if we think celestial
thoughts, which are the kind of thoughts that God thinks, then we develop
celestial minds and fulfill the meditation of Edward Dyer when he wrote:

_My mind to me a kingdom is,_

_Such present joys therein I find,_

_That it excels all other bliss_

_That earth affords or grows by kind._

We develop our own godliness at the funerals of our loved ones when we listen
to inspiring music, hear sacred prayers, comfort the bereaved, and stimulate
ourselves with the greatest ideas. Recently a bereaved couple came into my
office to tell me about their little three-year-old daughter who, without
warning, died suddenly before their eyes. Of course the parents were
heartbroken. They had shed many tears but their pain had not gone away, and
they wanted to release their tensions by talking with someone. We all
understand that we can heal others by listening sympathetically to an
expression of their grief. It helped me to help them by remembering that as a
very young man I sat at the bedside of my little seven-year-old sister, whom I
loved very much, while she died of diphtheria.

The mother of this other little girl felt that there could be nothing quite so
terrible as for her beautiful little daughter to die almost before she had
begun to live. And I could understand her pain. But finally I said to her,
"Sister Jones, if you think it would help, I think I can tell you something
that would be worse than your present trouble." She said, "If you know of
anything worse, I would like to hear about it." So I recited for her James
Whitcomb Riley's poem entitled "Bereaved." This was not the bereavement of one
whose child had died, it was the bereavement of one who had no children. This
sorrowful person said to her bereaved friend:

_Let me come in where you sit weeping--ay,_

_Let me, who have no child to die,_

_Weep with you for the [loss of that] little one whose love_

_I have known nothing of._

_[Let me imagine those] little arms that slowly, slowly loosed_

Their pressure round your neck; those hands you used

To kiss.--Such arms--such hands I never knew.

[For them will you not let me come and] weep with you?

_[Out of an empty heart it may be that I can] say some thing,_

_Between the tears, that [may] be comforting--_

_[For] ah! [how] sadder than yourself am I,_

_Who [weep alone, because I] have no child to die._

I am very grateful to Mr. Riley for these stimulating thoughts. And he
inspired me to compile my own book of ideas to heal those who are bereaved.

There is also a poetry of courage. For many years Grantland Rice, the famous
sportswriter, traveled around the country attending the great athletic
contests, trying to isolate those traits that made athletes into champions.
And then to make these traits negotiable in other lives, he wrote some seven
hundred poems about the qualities that made people great. One of these he
entitled "Courage." He said:

_I'd like to think that I can look at death and smile, and say_

_All I have left now is my final breath; take that away,_

_And you must either leave me dust or dreams or in far flight_

_The soul that wanders where the stardust streams through endless night._

But, said he:

_I'd rather think that I can look at life with this to say:_

_Send what you will of struggle or of strife, blue skies or gray,_

_I'll stand against the final charge of hate by peak and pit_

_And nothing in the steel-clad fist of fate can make me quit._

It has been said that the poets stand next to the prophets in their ability to
lift us up. I have never heard of Eliza R. Snow being sustained as a prophet,
and yet she wrote "O My Father." Sometimes we merely read these great lyrics
out of the hymnbook instead of memorizing them and loving them and frequently
saying them over to ourselves. Just think what would happen in the world if
each person made his own selection of those ninety great poems of faith that
most thrill him. I am sure that this afternoon you would not like to hear me
try to sing "O My Father," but I hope you will not object if I recite to you
those great words of faith and worship, wherein Sister Snow said:

_O my Father, thou that dwellest_

_In the high and glorious place,_

_When shall I regain thy presence,_

_And again behold thy face?_

_In thy holy habitation,_

_Did my spirit once reside?_

_In my first primeval childhood,_

_Was I nurtured near thy side?_

In the second verse, she said:

_For a wise and glorious purpose_

_Thou hast placed me here on earth,_

_And withheld the recollection_

_Of my former friends and birth._

_Yet ofttimes a secret something_

_Whispered, "You're a stranger here";_

_And I felt that I had wandered_

_From a more exalted sphere._

Verse three:

_I had learned to call thee Father,_

_Through thy Spirit from on high,_

_But until the key of knowledge_

_Was restored, I knew not why._

_In the heavens are parents single?_

_No; the thought makes reason stare!_

_Truth is reason, truth eternal_

_Tells me I've a mother there._

Verse four:

_When I leave this frail existence,_

_When I lay this mortal by,_

_Father, Mother, may I meet you_

_In your royal courts on high?_

_Then, at length, when I've completed_

_All you sent me forth to do,_

_With your mutual approbation_

_Let me come and dwell with you._

It might be difficult to find very many passages, even among the prophets,
with more healing power than this.

Just think what would happen in our lives if each of us memorized a goodly
number of the poems of love. The Library of Congress has one section entitled
The Poems of Faith and Freedom. The Lord said, "For my soul delighteth in the
song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it
shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." ([D&amp;C
25:12](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/25.12?lang=eng#11).)

As I walk to work each morning, I have almost an hour wherein I can think the
ideas that most stimulate me. And I have some other prayers to which I enjoy
giving expression. In one of these, I pray:

_Oh God I thank thee for each sight_

_Of beauty that thy world doth give._

_For sunny sky and air and light,_

_Oh, God, I thank thee that I live._

_That life I consecrate to thee_

_And ever as the day is born_

_On wings of joy my soul doth flee_

_And thank thee for another morn._

_Another morn in which to cast__Some silent deed of love abroad,_

_That great'ning as it journeys past_

_May do some earnest work for God._

Then I have collected another set of the poetry of success, the poetry of
enthusiasm, the poetry of industry, and the poetry of progress. Someone has
said:

_To every man upon this earth_

_Death cometh soon or late._

_[And every man may give his life_

_For something good and great.]_

_And how can man die better_

_Than in facing fearful odds,_

_For the ashes of his fathers,_

_And the temples of his gods._

As we get older, we may have new difficulties arise, and I like to encourage
myself by paraphrasing some ideas under the title "Carry On."

_Things may not look well_

_But then you never can tell,_

_So carry on, old man, carry on._

_Be proud of your mission,_

_Greet life with a cheer,_

_Give it all that you've got_

_That's why you are here._

_Fight the good fight_

_And be true to the end,_

_And at last when you die_

_Let this be your cry:_

_Carry on, my soul, carry on._

And I would like to extend to each of you my own blessing and appreciation in
the words adapted from an old Irish poem used by some of the people of that
land as they attempted to heal and enrich those they loved by praying:

_May the road rise up to meet you,_

_May the wind be always at your back,_

_May the sun shine warm upon your face,_

_And the rain fall gently in your fields,_

_And now and forever may God hold you_

_Lovingly in the hollow of His hand._

And that it may always be so I sincerely pray in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.

## References

