# “Overcome … Even As I Also Overcame”

Events and circumstances in the last days make it imperative for us as members
of the Church to become more grounded, rooted, established, and settled (see
[Col. 1:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/1.23?lang=eng#22); [Col.
2:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/2.7?lang=eng#6); [2 Pet.
1:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/1.12?lang=eng#11)). Jesus said
to His disciples, "settle this in your hearts, that ye will do the things
which I shall teach, and command you" (JST, Luke 14:28). If not so settled,
the turbulence will be severe. If settled, we will not be "tossed to and fro,"
whether by rumors, false doctrines, or by the behavioral and intellectual
fashions of the world. Nor will we get caught up in the "talk show" mentality,
spending our time like ancient Athenians "in nothing else, but either to tell,
or to hear some new thing" ([Acts
17:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/17.21?lang=eng#20)). Why be
concerned with the passing preferences of the world anyway? "For the fashion
of this world passeth away" ([1 Cor.
7:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/7.31?lang=eng#30)).

However, we cannot be thus settled in doing what Jesus has commanded _unless_
we are first settled about Him. If Jesus were only a man, albeit a very good
man, His counsel is merely that of a meridian moralist. It is quite another
thing, however, for the Creator of multiple worlds, whose central concern is
our individual happiness, to command, "Thou shalt not commit adultery." Our
task, therefore, is to "reconcile [ourselves] to the will of God, and not to
the will of ... the flesh" ([2 Ne.
10:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/10.24?lang=eng#23)).

The poet-prophet Jacob witnessed among Church members how covenant-breaking
wounded "delicate minds" and how hearts were "pierced with deep wounds"
([Jacob 2:9,
35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.9%2C35?lang=eng#8)). He was
"weighed down" and so heavy with sorrow because some members esteemed their
covenants so lightly ([Jacob
2:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.3?lang=eng#2)). As I witness
some of today's walking wounded, I understand Jacob's feelings as never
before!

Some Church members, alas, are neither reconciled to the will of God nor are
they sufficiently settled as to their covenants.

Some unworthily covenant afresh, partaking of the broken bread while having
broken their covenants of marriage.

Some give of their time yet withhold themselves, being present without giving
of their presence and going through the superficial motions of membership
instead of the deep emotions of consecrated discipleship.

Some try to get by with knowing only the headlines of the gospel, not really
talking much of Christ or rejoicing in Christ and esteeming lightly His books
of scripture which contain and explain His covenants (see [2 Ne.
25:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.26?lang=eng#25)).

Some are so proud they never learn of obedience and spiritual submissiveness.
They will have very arthritic knees on the day when every knee shall bend.
There will be no gallery then to play to; all will be participants!

Maintaining Church membership on our own terms, therefore, is not true
discipleship.

Real disciples absorb the fiery darts of the adversary by holding aloft the
quenching shield of faith with one hand, while holding to the iron rod with
the other (see [Eph.
6:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/6.16?lang=eng#15); [1 Ne.
15:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.24?lang=eng#23); [D&amp;C
27:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.17?lang=eng#16)).
There should be no mistaking; it will take both hands!

Real disciples are also, precept by precept and experience by experience,
becoming ever more like the Master they serve. We can neither be the woman nor
the "man of Christ" ([Hel.
3:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/3.29?lang=eng#28)) unless we are
coming to have the "mind of Christ" ([1 Cor.
2:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/2.16?lang=eng#15)). This process
can happily include, wrote Paul, those once "alienated and enemies in [their]
mind" ([Col. 1:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/1.21?lang=eng#20);
see [Philip. 2:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/2.5?lang=eng#4)).
We can be so clever, like the adversary, and still not know the mind of God!
(see [Moses 4:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.6?lang=eng#5)).

We can be "ever learning" and yet allow the everlasting truths to get lost in
life's shuffle as in this lamentation:

_Where is the Life we have lost in living?_

_Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge?_

_Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?_

To help us become true disciples, the Lord has given us prophets and
scriptures to strengthen us, "to prepare the weak for those things which are
coming on the earth, and for the Lord's errand in the day when ... by the weak
things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the power of his
Spirit" ([D&amp;C 133:58-59](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/133.58-59?lang=eng#57)).

Feasting upon the fulness of the gospel will help us to overcome.
Additionally, if we will keep our covenants, the covenants will keep us
spiritually safe.

One day, and why not soon, the people of the Church will fulfill this
prophecy: "The power of the Lamb of God ... descended upon the saints of the
church of the Lamb, ... the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon
all the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with the
power of God in great glory" ([1 Ne.
14:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.14?lang=eng#13)).

However, our collective light does not yet shine brightly enough to be "a
standard for the nations" ([D&amp;C 115:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/115.5?lang=eng#4)).

The Church would grow much faster now, numerically and spiritually, if it were
not for the wickedness of the world (see [1 Ne.
14:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.12?lang=eng#11)). It would
also grow much faster if you and I were better by taking up the Christian
cross daily (see [Luke
9:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/9.23?lang=eng#22)). Part of
taking up the cross is denying ourselves the lusts and appetites of the flesh.
"For it is better," the resurrected Jesus said, "that ye should deny
yourselves of these things, wherein ye will take up your cross" ([3 Ne.
12:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.30?lang=eng#29)).

Thus, the _daily_ taking up of the cross means _daily_ denying ourselves the
appetites of the flesh.

By emulating the Master, who endured temptations but "gave no heed unto them,"
we, too, can live in a world filled with temptations "such as [are] common to
man" ([1 Cor.
10:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/10.13?lang=eng#12)). Of course
Jesus noticed the tremendous temptations that came to him, but He did not
process and reprocess them. Instead, He rejected them promptly. If we
entertain temptations, soon they begin entertaining us! Turning these unwanted
lodgers away at the doorstep of the mind is one way of giving "no heed."
Besides, these would-be lodgers are actually barbarians who, if admitted, can
be evicted only with great trauma.

In a decaying environment, the mind is the last redoubt of righteousness, and
it must be preserved even amid bombardment by evil stimuli. Christ is
competent to see us through, "for in that he himself hath suffered being
tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted" ([Heb.
2:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/2.18?lang=eng#17)).

As promised, He will make either "a way to escape" or a way "to bear it" ([1
Cor. 10:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/10.13?lang=eng#12)).

We surely have been warned and forewarned about our time, a period in which
the compression of challenges may make a year seem like a decade. Members will
be cleverly mocked and scorned by those in the "great and spacious building,"
representing the pride of the world ([1 Ne.
8:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/8.26?lang=eng#25); [1 Ne.
11:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.36?lang=eng#35)). No
matter, for ere long, He who was raised on the third day will raze that
spacious but third-class hotel!

Ours will be a time of great inversion as well as perversion, as some will
call good evil and evil good (see [Isa.
5:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/5.20?lang=eng#19); [2 Ne.
15:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/15.20?lang=eng#19); [D&amp;C
64:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.16?lang=eng#15); [2
Ne. 2:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.5?lang=eng#4)). Others, in
their ignorance of spiritual truths, will "speak evil of those things which
they know not" ([Jude
1:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/jude/1.10?lang=eng#9); see [2 Pet.
2:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/2.12?lang=eng#11)).

Peace has already been taken from the earth (see [D&amp;C
1:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.35?lang=eng#34)).
Nation will rise against nation (see [Matt.
24:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.7?lang=eng#6)). It will also
be a time of hardening as the love of many waxes cold and iniquity abounds
(see [D&amp;C 45:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/45.27?lang=eng#26)). Secular bewilderment will be epidemic amid
the "distress of nations, with perplexity" ([Luke
21:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/21.25?lang=eng#24)) as various
vexations will mock man's cosmetic remedies:

_How small, of all that human hearts endure,_

_That part which laws or kings can cause or cure!_

We cannot expect to live in such a world without experiencing certain
consequences of these conditions. Yet we can always keep our covenants, even
if we cannot keep such conditions from coming.

The Lord, who knows all that through which we will pass, will help us to
overcome in our "small moment" of time ([D&amp;C
122:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/122.4?lang=eng#3)). If
we are settled, we will "endure it well" ([D&amp;C
121:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.8?lang=eng#7)) and
"hold fast" ([1 Thes.
5:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-thes/5.21?lang=eng#20)). Endured
righteously, "all these things shall give [us] experience, and shall be for
[our] good" ([D&amp;C 122:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/122.7?lang=eng#6)). "Think it not strange" when disciples are
called upon to pass through "the fiery trial," said Peter ([1 Pet.
4:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/4.12?lang=eng#11)).

Even so, the Saints of God, as prophesied, will eventually "cry unto the Lord
day and night until deliverance comes" (_Prophetic Sayings of Heber C.
Kimball,_ n.p., n.d., p. 6).

The spiritually settled will finally overcome, and the glorious promise is,
"To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I
also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne" ([Rev.
3:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/3.21?lang=eng#20)).

Meanwhile, let us remember "what manner of persons [we] ought ... to be" ([2
Pet. 3:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/3.11?lang=eng#10); [3 Ne.
27:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26)).
Attributively, we are to become even as Jesus, with His virtues being
increasingly replicated in our lives. Even in the midst of our obvious
imperfections, a sacred process is to be underway--if slowly, nevertheless
resolutely. Whatever one's unfolding agendum, he can be _overcoming_ if he is
_becoming_ more like Christ!

Even though scarred by the past, if contrite, Jesus' promise is: "I shall heal
them" ([3 Ne.
18:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.32?lang=eng#31)). Such
shall become "alive again" ([Luke
15:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/15.32?lang=eng#31)) "in Christ
because of [their] faith" ([2 Ne.
25:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.25?lang=eng#24)). As part
of His infinite atonement, Jesus knows "according to the flesh" all that
through which we pass ([Alma
7:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11-12?lang=eng#10)). He
has borne the sins, griefs, sorrows, and, declared Jacob, the pains of every
man, woman, and child (see [2 Ne.
9:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.21?lang=eng#20)). Having been
perfected in His empathy, Jesus thus knows how to succor us.

We can, therefore, actually do as Peter urged and cast our cares upon the Lord
(see [1 Pet. 5:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/5.7?lang=eng#6)); He
is familiar with them, including even the feeling of being forsaken (see [Mark
14:50](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.50?lang=eng#49), [Mark
15:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/15.34?lang=eng#33)). Nothing is
beyond His redeeming reach or His encircling empathy. Therefore, we should not
complain about our own life's not being a rose garden when we remember who
wore the crown of thorns!

I turn now to the conclusion of Jesus' mortal Messiahship. Luke reported
Jesus' sweating in Gethsemane "as it were great drops of blood falling down to
the ground" ([Luke
22:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.44?lang=eng#43)). This fact
is fully validated in the "other books" of restoration scripture ([1 Ne.
13:39-40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/13.39-40?lang=eng#38)):
"Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, ... to bleed at
every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit--and would that I might not
drink the bitter cup, and shrink" ([D&amp;C
19:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.18?lang=eng#17)).

The necessary but awesome shedding of Jesus' blood thus occurred not only in
the severe scourging, but earlier in Gethsemane. A recent and thoughtful
article by several physicians on the physical death of Jesus Christ indicates
that "the severe scourging, with its intense pain and appreciable blood loss,
most probably left Jesus in a preshock state." (We all recall, of course, that
a dramatically weakened Jesus needed help to carry the cross.) "Therefore,
even before the actual crucifixion, Jesus' physical condition was at least
serious and possibly critical. ... Although scourging may have resulted in
considerable blood loss, crucifixion per se was a relatively bloodless
procedure" (_Journal of the American Medical Association,_ 21 Mar. 1986, pp.
1458, 1461).

In addition to the consequences of scourging, how Christ's lifeblood had
already flowed in Gethsemane! Remember, he suffered "both body and spirit"
([D&amp;C 19:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/19.18?lang=eng#17)). Declared King Benjamin, Christ would suffer
"even more than man can suffer, except it be unto death; for behold, blood
cometh from every pore, so great shall be his anguish" ([Mosiah
3:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.7?lang=eng#6)).

Having bled at every pore, how red His raiment must have been in Gethsemane,
how crimson that cloak!

No wonder, when Christ comes in power and glory, that He will come in
reminding red attire (see [D&amp;C 133:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/133.48?lang=eng#47)), signifying not only the winepress of wrath,
but also to bring to our remembrance how He suffered for each of us in
Gethsemane and on Calvary!

In recent years, as I have sung the hymns of the Atonement, it has been with
an especially full heart--and also with full voice, when I can continue to
sing--lines such as "How great thou art," "I scarce can take it in," "To
rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine," "I stand all amazed," and "Oh,
it is wonderful!" (_Hymns,_ 1985, nos. 86, 193).

Now, my brothers and sisters, let not Jesus' redemption for us stop at the
immortalizing dimension of the Atonement, "the loosing of the bands of death"
([Alma 11:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.41?lang=eng#40)).
Let us grasp the proffered gift of eternal life! We will end up either
choosing Christ's manner of living or His manner of suffering! It is either
"suffer even as I" ([D&amp;C 19:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/19.16-17?lang=eng#15)), or overcome "even as [He] ... overcame"
([Rev. 3:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/3.21?lang=eng#20)). His
beckoning command is to become "even as I am" ([3 Ne.
27:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26)). The
spiritually settled accept that invitation, and "through the atonement of
Christ," they _become_ and _overcome!_ (see [Mosiah 3:18,
19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.18%2C19?lang=eng#17)).

In this unsettled world, may we settle in our hearts on this determination, I
pray in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.

