# Preach My Gospelâ€”the Unifying Tool between Members and Missionaries

Not long ago, we invited two sister missionaries over for lunch. After we
finished eating, we asked them to leave a spiritual thought with us. They were
well prepared and introduced a scripture reading and marking exercise to us.
They had brought a fresh copy of the Book of Mormon and a set of colored
pencils. We accepted the invitation of the missionaries. Since then, our daily
Book of Mormon family scripture reading has changed. In every chapter, we mark
with different colors the passages related to Jesus Christ as we discover
them. Every time, this little exercise reminds us of our missionaries.

When the missionaries presented this, we immediately recognized it as a
scripture study exercise suggested in _Preach My Gospel._ As a family, we are
so thankful for this great and powerful missionary tool.

For the past three years missionaries have been using _Preach My Gospel_ all
around the world. It has truly revolutionized missionary work. The great
vision of President Hinckley is being fulfilled: Missionaries "master the
concepts of the lessons." They "teach the concepts in their own words under
the guiding influence of the Holy Spirit" (see "Missionary Service,"
_Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting,_ Jan. 11, 2003, 19).

As the missionaries become immersed in _Preach My Gospel,_ they learn and
apply important doctrines and principles which make them more capable in their
important service. Despite this, they still need all of our help and support.
Only together can we fulfill the great charge given to the ancient and modern
Apostles: "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature"
([Mark 16:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/16.15?lang=eng#14)).

In order to be successful in these efforts, we must be one with the
missionaries, and we must understand one another. Do you always understand the
missionaries? I do not refer to language but rather to how they do missionary
work. We see and observe them inviting people to listen to their message. They
teach gospel principles and invite those who are interested to change their
lives and be baptized and confirmed members of the Church.

If we want to understand and help our missionaries, we must have faith as
missionaries have faith, we must think as missionaries think, and we must feel
as missionaries feel. How can we achieve that?

One important way, of course, is to be with the missionaries and see them do
what they do. But another way for us is to get acquainted with _Preach My
Gospel_ and learn more about missionary work. Ever since President McKay said,
"Every member a missionary" (in Conference Report, Apr. 1959, 122), members
have been striving to become more active in sharing the gospel. With _Preach
My Gospel,_ we have a marvelous guide to better help us act upon this
invitation. Our own study of _Preach My Gospel_ will not only help us to
develop a greater understanding and appreciation for our missionaries, but it
will help us in our own day-to-day life.

Every member of our family owns a copy of _Preach My Gospel._ Studying this
guide is a great support in developing a strong testimony. It helps us
understand fundamental gospel principles and the desire to serve. Allow me for
a moment to highlight some of the headings of _Preach My Gospel_ ([2004],
iii), and you will understand.

They read:

"How Do I Recognize and Understand the Spirit?"

"How Do I Study Effectively and Prepare to Teach?"

"What Do I Study and Teach?"

"What Is the Role of the Book of Mormon?"

"How Do I Develop Christlike Attributes?"

Aren't those the things that all of us want to learn? For everyone who wants
to become a better member missionary and who wants to know how to support the
missionaries, _Preach My Gospel_ is full of powerful ideas and insights. We
learn how we can help the missionaries find people to teach and how we as
members can work hand in hand with the missionaries to help those who are
investigating the Church. We learn to understand why strong invitations to act
are helpful to increase faith in Jesus Christ and how we can stand with our
nonmember friends who are moving through this wonderful, life-changing process
of conversion.

Along with studying the scriptures, missionaries study _Preach My Gospel_
every day. They learn principles and skills, and they apply them. They
especially learn how to use the guidance of the Spirit in their work. If we
want to learn as missionaries do, we too must carefully study _Preach My
Gospel_ and observe the missionaries in their daily work.

In the introduction to _Preach My Gospel,_ we read: "_Preach My Gospel_ is for
the full-time missionaries of the Church. However, the principles and
doctrines taught herein are also applicable to ward missionaries and leaders
as they seek to build the Lord's kingdom. Frequent study of this manual will
enable them to fulfill their responsibilities as member missionaries and will
foster unity with the full-time missionaries" (xi).

Elder Richard G. Scott taught that all members should carefully study _Preach
My Gospel._ He said, "Much good has been accomplished ... since _Preach My
Gospel_ was introduced, but the best is yet to come as we all become more
proficient in the use of this extraordinary missionary tool" ("The Power of
_Preach My Gospel,_" _Liahona_ and _Ensign,_ May 2005, 31).

Our time may seem limited to do this study, so therefore let me give a few
suggestions that may help.

  * Youth preparing for a mission should carefully study _Preach My Gospel_ along with the scriptures.

  * Invite the missionaries to your home. Ask them to teach you and your family a principle or doctrine from _Preach My Gospel._

  * Every once in a while, use _Preach My Gospel_ for family home evening. Let your teenage children teach your family as missionaries would do. In our home, we have had some surprisingly great lessons given by our children. We have been astonished at how well they taught simple principles. Sometimes we have invited friends to those lessons.

  * Gospel teachers could use the simple but effective principles of gospel teaching as outlined in _Preach My Gospel_ as a support to the prescribed courses of study.

  * _Preach My Gospel_ has been translated and published in almost every language that our members speak. In countries where the Church is still young, _Preach My Gospel_ may be used along with the scriptures as a resource and foundation for all gospel learning and teaching.

  * Elder Scott encouraged local Church leaders "to use these materials in ... presidencies, priesthood executive committee meetings, and ward councils" (_Liahona_ and _Ensign,_ May 2005, 31).

  * Use _Preach My Gospel_ as a resource for training, talks, spiritual thoughts, lessons, firesides, and personal study.

I bear witness that this missionary guide is inspired of God. We must study it
more carefully, that we may understand our missionaries and their work better.
Missionaries and members must speak one language. We must become one in our
efforts to proclaim the gospel. It will better enable us to become tools in
the hand of the Lord, for He said, "And even so will I gather mine elect from
the four quarters of the earth, even as many as will believe in me, and
hearken unto my voice" ([D&amp;C 33:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/33.6?lang=eng#5)).

As members of His Church, we are expected to be a part of this glorious
gathering process. Of this truth I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

