# “Lest Ye Be Wearied and Faint in Your Minds”

Having all been richly nourished by this general conference, it is fitting to
focus prescriptively on the few in the Church who remain spiritually
undernourished, including those who have grown weary and fainted in their
minds. (See [Heb.
12:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/12.3?lang=eng#2).)

A few of these few have had their faith scorched, such as by the circumstances
of wrenching or unrelieved sickness, grinding economic pressures, loss of a
loved one, or deep disappointment with a spouse or friend. Adversity can
increase faith or instead can cause the troubling roots of bitterness to
spring up. (See [Heb.
12:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/12.15?lang=eng#14).) A few have
been overcome by the preoccupying cares of the world, those wearying, surface
things of life. (See [Matt.
13:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/13.6-7?lang=eng#5).) Emerson's
plea is surely appropriate: "Give me truths: for I am weary of the surfaces."
("Blight," in _The Complete Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson,_ New York: Wm. H.
Wise &amp; Co., 1929, p. 874.) A few are fatigued by unconfessed sins. A few
tire from milling about haltingly in the "valley of decision." ([Joel
3:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/joel/3.14?lang=eng#13); see also [1
Kgs. 18:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/18.21?lang=eng#20).) A
few, foolishly focusing on something other than Jesus, the Sure and True
Foundation, are drained by disappointment. (See [Hel.
5:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.12?lang=eng#11).)

Whatever the preceding causes, any fainting in our minds brings a loss of
spiritual consciousness and, with this, the inclination to charge God
foolishly. (See [Job
1:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/1.22?lang=eng#21).)

The urgings for us not to weary in well-doing contain prescriptions to avoid
such weariness. (See [Gal.
6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/6.9?lang=eng#8); [2 Thes.
3:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-thes/3.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma
37:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.34?lang=eng#33).) We are to
work steadily, but realistically, and only expect to reap "in due season."
([Gal. 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/6.9?lang=eng#8).) We are to
serve while being "meek and lowly" ([Alma
37:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.34?lang=eng#33)), avoiding
thereby the wearying burdens of self-pity and hypocrisy. We are to pray always
so that we will not faint, so that our performance will actually be for the
welfare of our souls, which is so much more than just going through the
motions. (See [2 Ne. 32:5,
9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.5%2C9?lang=eng#4); [D&amp;C
75:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/75.11?lang=eng#10);
[D&amp;C 88:126](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.126?lang=eng#125).)

Even when righteously chastised or rebuked, we need not faint, for in the
correcting is renewing love: "My son, despise not thou the chastening of the
Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:

"For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth." ([Heb.
12:5-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/12.5-8?lang=eng#4).)

One's life, therefore, cannot be both faith-filled and stress-free. President
Wilford Woodruff counseled us all about the mercy that is inherent in some
adversity: "The chastisements we have had from time to time have been for our
good, and are essential to learn wisdom, and carry us through a school of
experience we never could have passed through without." (In _Journal of
Discourses,_ 2:198.)

Therefore, how can you and I really expect to glide naively through life, as
if to say, "Lord, give me experience, but not grief, not sorrow, not pain, not
opposition, not betrayal, and certainly not to be forsaken. Keep from me,
Lord, all those experiences which made Thee what Thou art! Then let me come
and dwell with Thee and fully share Thy joy!"

Serving, studying, praying, and worshiping are four fundamentals in perfecting
"that which is lacking in [our] faith." ([1 Thes.
3:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-thes/3.10?lang=eng#9).) If we cease
nurturing our faith in any of these four specific ways, we are vulnerable.

Failure to study, for instance, is to be intellectually and spiritually
malnourished. Inspired words do matter, for "when a man works by faith he
works by ... words." (_Lectures on Faith,_ 7:3.) In a hardening world, the Lord
can pierce our consciousness by using "the sword of the Spirit, which is the
word of God." ([Eph.
6:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/6.17?lang=eng#16); see also [Jarom
1:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jarom/1.12?lang=eng#11).) However,
hearing must be "mixed with faith" ([Heb.
4:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/4.2?lang=eng#1)) and with Christian
service, as we have heard again and again in this conference.

"For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and who is a
stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and intents of his heart?"
([Mosiah 5:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.13?lang=eng#12).)

A lack of deep personal prayer and deep genuine worship also erodes our faith,
and we may "faint in the day of trouble." ([D&amp;C
109:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/109.38?lang=eng#37).)

Much of any weariness is attributable to carrying the heavy natural man.
Unlike others we might carry, the natural man is heavy, and he is not our
brother!

So much depends upon our individual faith. The Apostles pled, "Lord, Increase
our faith." ([Luke
17:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/17.5?lang=eng#4).) No wonder,
brothers and sisters, because we are to "walk by faith, not by sight." ([2
Cor. 5:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-cor/5.7?lang=eng#6).) Life is so
designed that we are to "overcome by faith" ([D&amp;C
76:53](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.53?lang=eng#52)), not
by intellectual acuity or wealth or political prowess.

Nevertheless, seekers after the rewards of faith are often disappointed when
they are told to study, serve, pray, and worship. As with leprous Naaman, they
apparently expect some great thing which requires no obedience to counsel.
(See [2 Kgs. 5:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-kgs/5.13?lang=eng#12).)

Faith brings with it the expanding "evidence of things not seen." ([Heb.
11:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/11.1?lang=eng#0).) Some mortals
dismiss this real, spiritual evidence because "the natural man receiveth not
the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him ... because
they are spiritually discerned." ([1 Cor.
2:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/2.14?lang=eng#13).) But this
provincialism on the part of others should not deprive the rest of us of
energizing evidence.

Building faith is often preceded by shaping circumstances, benefiting those
who are "in a preparation to hear the word." ([Alma
32:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.6?lang=eng#5).) These
beginnings require at least a "desire to believe" and then comes the
exercising of a "particle of faith." ([Alma
32:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.27?lang=eng#26).)

As we "give place" and plant the seed of faith, it grows discernibly. We are
invigorated as it enlightens and swells. (See [Alma
32:28-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.28-30?lang=eng#27).) We
become our own internal auditors, confirming this increase in our faith. It is
better to so nourish our faith in what seems to be an ordinary process than to
experience extraordinary things only to stumble later over life's ordinary
challenges.

However, in this process of personal experimentation and verification, the
several, sacred steps cannot be skipped over: "For ye receive no witness until
after the trial of your faith." ([Ether
12:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.6?lang=eng#5).)

Moreover, acquiring faith is not a one-time thing: "But if ye neglect the
tree, and take no thought for its nourishment, behold it will not get any
root; and when the heat of the sun cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no
root it withers away." ([Alma
32:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.38?lang=eng#37).)

Our "neglect," brothers and sisters, takes so many forms. Similarly, the
withering "heat of the sun" is felt in so many ways.

Experience by experience, faith can yield to knowledge "in that thing,"
meaning the particularized verifications of gospel truths. ([Alma
32:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.34?lang=eng#33).) It was so
with the brother of Jared: "He had faith no longer, for he knew." ([Ether
3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/3.19?lang=eng#18).) Brigham
Young assured that "every principle God has revealed carries its own
convictions of its truth to the human mind." (In _Journal of Discourses,_
9:149.) Jesus clearly declared that "if any man will do his will, he shall
know." ([John 7:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/7.17?lang=eng#16).)
However, Jesus described the steady process as being one of "line upon line,
precept upon precept." ([D&amp;C 98:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/98.12?lang=eng#11).)

But we're all at different points in this process, aren't we, of desiring,
experimenting, verifying, and knowing. Hence "to some it is given ... to know. ...
To others it is given to believe on their words." ([D&amp;C
46:13-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/46.13-14?lang=eng#12).)

While faith is not a perfect knowledge, it brings a deep trust in God, whose
knowledge is perfect! Otherwise, one's small data base of personal experience
permits so few useful generalizations! But by searching the holy scriptures,
we access a vast, divine data bank, a reservoir of remembrance. In this way,
the scriptures can, as the Book of Mormon says, enlarge the memory. (See [Alma
37:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.8?lang=eng#7).)

Fully formed faith has several, distinct facets. Faith in God and in the Lord
Jesus Christ includes not only faith in Their existence but also in Their
redemptive capacities. The Lord has assured us, "I will show unto the children
of men that I am able to do mine own work." ([2 Ne.
27:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/27.21?lang=eng#20).) Is He
ever able! Indeed, "in him all things hold together." (Revised Standard
Version, [Col. 1:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/1.17?lang=eng#16).)
Nevertheless, some doubt that God's announced purposes will actually triumph.

Faith also includes trust in God's timing, for He has said, "All things must
come to pass in their time." ([D&amp;C 64:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/64.32?lang=eng#31).) Ironically, some who acknowledge God are
tried by His timing, globally and personally!

Faith likewise includes faith in God's developmental purposes, for "the Lord
seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their
faith." ([Mosiah
23:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/23.21?lang=eng#20).) Still,
some of us have trouble when God's tutoring is applied to us! We plead for
exemption more than we do for sanctification, don't we, brothers and sisters?

A reassuring promise is given us in this journey: "And any man that shall go
and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue faithful in
all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened." ([D&amp;C
84:80](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.80?lang=eng#79).)

But what if, from time to time, we appear to be doing all four of these
essential things--serving, studying, praying, and worshiping--and still seem
to obtain a lesser measure of the promised blessings?

First, check "the equipment"! All four components are needed, and one may be
missing or malfunctioning.

Second, go back to a very basic question: Does one really have an inner
"desire to believe"? ([Alma
32:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.27?lang=eng#26).) Frankly,
some find discipleship constraining and the world appealing. These individuals
are merely going through the motions without real intent.

Third, do we naively expect Christ to come to us--instead of our going to Him?
Truly He waits "all the day long" with open arms to receive the repentant. ([2
Ne. 28:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.32?lang=eng#31); [Morm.
6:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/6.17?lang=eng#16).) There are
no restrictive "office hours." But it is we who must arise and go to Him! (See
[Luke 15:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/15.18?lang=eng#17).)

Blessed are the meek for they shall not be easily offended, which is
especially important, since "My people must be tried in all things, ... and he
that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." ([D&amp;C
136:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/136.31?lang=eng#30).)

Genuine faith makes increasing allowance for these individual tutorials. In
view of these tutorials, God cannot, brothers and sisters, respond
affirmatively to all of our petitions with an unbroken chain of "yeses." This
would assume that all of our petitions are for that "which is right" and are
spiritually "expedient." ([3 Ne.
18:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.20?lang=eng#19); [D&amp;C
18:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.18?lang=eng#17);
[D&amp;C 88:64-65](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.64-65?lang=eng#63).) No petitioner is so wise! Paul even
acknowledged that we sometimes "know not what we should pray for as we ought."
([Rom. 8:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/8.26?lang=eng#25); see also
[D&amp;C 46:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/46.30?lang=eng#29).)

For example, in process of time, our personal inconsistencies may be made
inconveniently clear. How else shall we see what we lack? Spiritual refinement
is not only to make the gross more pure but to further refine the already
fine! Hence, said Peter, we should not think a "fiery trial" to be "some
strange thing." ([1 Pet.
4:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/4.12?lang=eng#11).)

Real faith, however, is required to endure this necessary but painful
developmental process. As things unfold, sometimes in full view, let us be
merciful with each other. We certainly do not criticize hospital patients amid
intensive care for looking pale and preoccupied. Why then those recovering
from surgery on their souls? No need for us to stare; those stitches will
finally come out. And in this hospital, too, it is important for everyone to
remember that the hospital chart is not the patient. Extending our mercy to
someone need not wait upon our full understanding of their challenges! Empathy
may not be appreciated or reciprocated, but empathy is never wasted.

When you and I make unwise decisions, if we have frail faith, we not only
demand to be rescued but we want to be rescued privately, painlessly, quickly
--or at least to be beaten only "with a few stripes." ([2 Ne.
28:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.8?lang=eng#7).) Brothers and
sisters, how can we really feel forgiven until we first feel responsible? How
can we learn from our own experiences unless these lessons are owned up to?

In the trial of faith, we may sometimes feel God has deserted us. The reality
is that our behavior has isolated us from Him. It is when we first feel the
consequences of our mistakes and are just turning away from these, but have
not yet turned fully to God, that we may have these feelings of being
forsaken.

No part of walking by faith is more difficult than walking the road of
repentance. However, with "faith unto repentance" ([Alma
34:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.16?lang=eng#15)), we can
push the roadblock of pride away and beg God for mercy. One simply surrenders,
worrying only about what God thinks, not about what "they" think.

Growing out of our faith in the Lord is our sustaining of His anointed
leaders, as we have done at this April conference. Faithful Church members
have what Peter called an "unfeigned love of the brethren." ([1 Pet.
1:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/1.22?lang=eng#21).) Collectively
but not perfectly, those sustained do the work to which God has called them.
As with Joseph Smith, so it is for his succeeding Brethren. The operative
promise persists: namely, the people of the Church will never be turned away
"by the testimony of traitors." ([D&amp;C
122:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/122.3?lang=eng#2).) But
the faithful know something about divine determination. They know that the
Lord's purposes will finally triumph, for "there is nothing that the Lord thy
God shall take in his heart to do but what he will do it." ([Abr.
3:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.17?lang=eng#16).) Of that
divine determination and divine love I gladly and publicly testify in the holy
name of Jesus Christ, amen.

