# Joseph, the Seer

Throughout the expanse of human history, no prophet has been scrutinized in
such a sustained way, on as wide a scale, or for so long a period of time as
Joseph Smith, Jr. The communication capacity of this age and the global impact
of his work have so ensured.

Young Joseph was told that his name would be "both good and evil spoken of"
throughout the world. ([JS--H 1:33](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.33?lang=eng#32).)
Except from a divine source, how audacious a statement! Yet his contemporary
religious leaders, then much better known than Joseph, have faded into the
footnotes of history, while the work of Joseph Smith grows constantly and
globally.

We have no hesitancy, however, in stipulating that Joseph was, by the
standards of the world, "not learned." Isaiah foresaw it. (See [Isa.
29:11-12](/scriptures/ot/isa/29.11-12?lang=eng#10).) Joseph did not have the
skilled, formal tutoring young Saul had at the feet of Gamaliel. (See [Acts
22:3](/scriptures/nt/acts/22.3?lang=eng#2).)

Emma Smith reportedly said that Joseph, at the time of the translation of the
Book of Mormon, could not compose a "well-worded letter let alone dictating a
book like the Book of Mormon ... [which was] marvelous to me, a marvel and a
wonder, as much as to anyone else." (Preston Nibley, _The Witnesses of the
Book of Mormon,_ Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1968, p. 28.)

This obscure young man apparently paused while translating and dictating to
Emma--probably from the fourth chapter of 1 Nephi [[1 Ne.
4](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/4?lang=eng)]--concerning the "wall of Jerusalem"--and
said, in effect, "Emma, I didn't know there was a wall around Jerusalem."

But Joseph's keen mind was being awakened and expanded as the tutoring words
of the Lord and of past prophets flowed through his quickened consciousness.
In fact, he was the very seer foreseen anciently by the earlier Joseph in
Egypt! (See [2 Ne. 3:6-7,
16-18](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.6-7,16-18?lang=eng#5).)

In a prophetic father's blessing given in December 1834 to Joseph Smith,
Junior, Father Smith confirmed those promises given the ancient Joseph, and
pronounced added blessings, including these, upon young Joseph: "Thy God has
called thee by name out of the heavens ... to do a work in this generation which
no other man would do as Thyself." The ancient Joseph "looked after his
posterity in the last days ... And sought diligently to know ... who would bring
the word of the Lord [to them] and his eyes beheld thee, my son: [Joseph
Smith, Jr.] his heart rejoiced and his soul was satisfied."

Young Joseph also heard his father promise, "Thou shalt like to do the work
which the Lord shall command Thee." (See [2 Ne.
3:8](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.8?lang=eng#7).)

Earlier, during the approximately ninety days of translating, Joseph was
processing--and at a remarkable rate--truths and concepts of immense
significance, beyond what was then his capacity. A few gems only from that
treasure trove:

Could Joseph have been expected, for instance, to appreciate fully that,
through him, would be given the only significant scriptural elaboration of one
of the most fundamental and demanding declarations of Jesus?

"Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children,
ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." ([Matt.
18:3](/scriptures/nt/matt/18.3?lang=eng#2).)

Through Joseph Smith's translation came these stunning, defining, and sobering
words about what childlike and saintly submissiveness really means:

"A saint [is one who becomes] through the atonement of Christ the Lord ... a
child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to
all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth
submit to his father." ([Mosiah
3:19](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18).)

Likewise, Paul wrote that since Jesus was tempted, he understood how to succor
us when we are tempted. (See [Heb. 2:18](/scriptures/nt/heb/2.18?lang=eng#17);
[Heb. 4:15](/scriptures/nt/heb/4.15?lang=eng#14).) Yet it was through Joseph
Smith that these confirming and clarifying words of Alma were given:

"And [Jesus] shall go forth, suffering pains and afflictions and temptations
of every kind; ... he will take upon him the pains and the sicknesses of his
people ... that his bowels may be filled with mercy, according to the flesh,
that he may know according to the flesh how to succor his people according to
their infirmities." ([Alma
7:11-12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11-12?lang=eng#10).)

Illuminated also was petitionary prayer: "Whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer,
believing, ye shall receive." ([Matt.
21:22](/scriptures/nt/matt/21.22?lang=eng#21).) "Plain and precious" and
needed light was added to those words through Joseph:

"And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, _which is right,_
believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you." ([3 Ne.
18:20](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.20?lang=eng#19); italics added.)

"He that asketh in the Spirit asketh according to the will of God; wherefore
it is done even as he asketh." ([D&amp;C 46:30](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/46.30?lang=eng#29).)

Not only did confirming and clarifying truths flow through Joseph, but also
rich language and deep concepts.

From Ammon:

"How blind and impenetrable are the understandings of the children of men; for
they will not seek wisdom, neither do they desire that she should rule over
them!

"Yea, they are as a wild flock which fleeth from the shepherd, and scattereth,
and are driven." ([Mosiah
8:20-21](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/8.20-21?lang=eng#19).)

From Jacob:

"Ye have broken the hearts of your tender wives, and lost the confidence of
your children, because of your bad examples before them; ... many hearts died,
pierced with deep wounds." ([Jacob
2:35](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.35?lang=eng#34).)

From Amulek, who finally triumphed over ambivalence:

"Nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called many times and I would
not hear; therefore I knew concerning these things, yet I would not know."
([Alma 10:6](/scriptures/bofm/alma/10.6?lang=eng#5).)

Theology and beauty combine, again and again, in the pages provided through
Joseph, as when the resurrected Christ appeared in the Western Hemisphere:

"And when [Jesus] had said these words, he himself also knelt upon the earth;
and behold he prayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be
written. ...

"And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can
the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and
heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls
at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father." ([3 Ne.
17:15-17](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17.15-17?lang=eng#14).)

Serious study of the blessed Book of Mormon admits one to a wonder world of
complexity and beauty, even in the midst of the book's simple, but powerful,
spiritual refrain. We are given that which we most need--yet we are athirst
for more!

Granted, whenever the words of heaven are filtered through mortal minds and
tongues there is some diminution. Yet, as with Nephi of old, so it was with
Joseph Smith:

"If ye shall believe in Christ ye will believe in these words, for they are
the words of Christ, and he hath given them unto me." ([2 Ne.
33:10](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/33.10?lang=eng#9).)

Joseph later learned to express his own thoughts inspirationally, as in his
forgiving letter of 1840 to a betraying but repenting W. W. Phelps.

"It is true, that we have suffered much in consequence of your behavior--the
cup of gall, already full enough for mortals to drink, was indeed filled to
overflowing when you turned against us. One with whom we had oft taken sweet
counsel together, and enjoyed many refreshing seasons from the Lord--'had it
been an enemy, we could have borne it.' ...

"However, the cup has been drunk, the will of our Father has been done, and we
are yet alive, for which we thank the Lord. ...

"I shall be happy once again to ... rejoice over the returning prodigal. ...

"'Come on, dear brother, since the war is past, For friends at first, are
friends again at last.'" (_History of the Church,_ 4:163-64.)

Was Joseph imperfect like other prophets? Of course! Surely, Joseph could
identify with these words of an ancient prophet, which he translated:

"Condemn me not because of mine imperfection, neither my father, because of
his imperfection, ... but rather give thanks unto God that he hath made manifest
unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise than we have
been." ([Morm. 9:31](/scriptures/bofm/morm/9.31?lang=eng#30); see also
[D&amp;C 67:5](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/67.5?lang=eng#4).)

Joseph, who translated the instructive words "there is an opposition in all
things" ([2 Ne. 2:11](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.11?lang=eng#10)), came to
understand, by experience, that the calisthenics of spiritual growth involve
isometrics, the pitting of the emerging self against the stern resistance of
the old self.

Did Joseph experience the same anxieties in carrying out his mission as did
other prophets? Indeed! Joseph could understand with what feelings a weary and
beset Paul wrote:

"For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were
troubled on every side; without were fightings, within were fears." ([2 Cor.
7:5](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/7.5?lang=eng#4); see also [2 Cor.
4:8](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/4.8?lang=eng#7).)

Was Joseph unjustly accused as were other prophets? Yes! Even unto this very
day fragments of fact are flung at his memory. Paul was accused of being mad
and deranged. (See [Acts 26:24](/scriptures/nt/acts/26.24?lang=eng#23).) Even
Jesus himself was accused of being a winebibber, of being possessed of a
devil, and of being mad. (See [Matt.
11:19](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.19?lang=eng#18); [John
10:20](/scriptures/nt/john/10.20?lang=eng#19).)

Yet, in the midst of all these things, as promised, Joseph loved the work to
which he had been called. And he loved his associates! In giving individual
assignments to the Twelve, we see his love and humor tenderly intertwined:

"John Taylor, I believe you can do more good in the editorial department than
preaching. You can write for thousands to read; while you can preach to but a
few at a time. We have no one else we can trust the paper with, and hardly
with you, for you suffer the paper to come out with so many mistakes."
(_History of the Church,_ 5:367.)

Joseph was filled with mercy as evidenced in the healing of the many fevered
sick on the banks of a river, and where his hands could not go, Joseph sent a
healing handkerchief! (See _History of the Church,_ 4:3-5.)

He sorrowed over his loss of a newborn child and was given permission to care
for a neighbor's child during the day, then return the baby to her mother at
night. An older sister of the baby, Margarette McIntire, later reported:

"One evening he did not come [home] with [the child] at the usual time, and
mother went down to the Mansion to see what was the matter, and there sat the
Prophet with the baby wrapped up in a little silk quilt. He was trotting it on
his knee, and singing to it to get it quiet before starting out." (_Ensign,_
Jan. 1971, pp. 36-37.)

Was Joseph a leader-servant? Demonstrably! A girl and her brother were
struggling in the deep mud on their way to school. The Prophet Joseph "stooped
down and cleaned the mud from our little heavy-laden shoes, took his
handkerchief from his pocket, and wiped our tear-stained faces. He spoke kind
and cheering words to us, and sent us on our way to school rejoicing."
(_Juvenile Instructor,_ 15 Jan. 1892, p. 67.)

In fleeing with Joseph from a mob, a young man reported, "sickness and fright
had robbed me of my strength. Joseph had to decide whether to leave me to be
captured by the mob, or endanger himself by rendering aid. Choosing the latter
course, he lifted me upon his broad shoulders and bore me with occasional rest
through the swamp and darkness. Several hours later we emerged upon the only
road and soon reached safety. Joseph's herculean strength permitted him to
[save] my life." (_New Era,_ Dec. 1973, p. 19.)

A victim of intolerance, Joseph Smith was deeply offended when a Catholic
convent was burned in New England, saying, "Yes, in sight of the very spot
where the fire of American Independence was first kindled." (_History of the
Church,_ 2:465.) Maligned, even today, Joseph once declared, "I am just as
ready to die in defending the rights of a Presbyterian, a Baptist, or ... any
other denomination." (_History of the Church,_ 5:498.)

While most mortals misunderstand the significance of Joseph's ministry, the
adversary surely did not!

Unsurprisingly, Joseph Smith, Jr., was still growing spiritually and
intellectually, when he was murdered. Yet, Joseph lived long enough to "lay
out the plan of all the work which God has given you to do" as promised in the
blessing from his dying father in 1840. Now the ends of the earth inquire
after his name. No wonder an admiring but dying Brigham Young's last words
were "Joseph, Joseph, Joseph!" (Joseph Fielding Smith, _Essentials in Church
History,_ 24th ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1971, p. 459.)

Thus, those who revile Joseph Smith will not change Joseph's status with the
Lord (see [2 Ne. 3:8](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.8?lang=eng#7))--merely their
own! Instead--as was promised Joseph in an 1834 father's blessing:

"Thousands and tens of thousands shall come to a knowledge of the truth,
through thy ministry, and thou shalt rejoice with Them in the Celestial
Kingdom; [and] thou shalt stand on Mount Zion when the tribes of Jacob come
shouting from the north, and with thy brethren, the Sons of Ephraim, crown
them in the name of Jesus Christ."

Some may seek to explain Joseph merely by attaching to him the generous
adjective _remarkable._ Joseph was remarkable, but, much more importantly, he
was instrumental!

Even now, one hears faintly the distant but approaching drum roll of history
building towards a crescendo of mortal recognition when all shall see "things
as they really are." ([Jacob 4:13](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13?lang=eng#12).)

Meanwhile, the ancient records which a young Joseph translated will be with us
"from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand." ([2 Ne.
25:22](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.22?lang=eng#21); see also [D&amp;C
5:10](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/5.10?lang=eng#9).) These records defined a
seer as one who can translate ancient records, is a revelator, and knows of
things past and future. (See [Mosiah
8:13-17](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/8.13-17?lang=eng#12).) Such a seer, wrote
Ammon, is greater than a prophet! (See [Mosiah
8:15-17](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/8.15-17?lang=eng#14).)

Therefore, brothers and sisters, I have no hesitancy--only gladness--in
declaring my everlasting admiration for Joseph, the Seer! I thank the Father
for providing such a seer! I thank my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, for
calling, directing, and tutoring Joseph!

Humbly, I give apostolic "praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," in the
name of Jesus Christ, amen!

## References

