# The Tugs and Pulls of the World

For true believers, the tugs and pulls of the world--including its pleasures,
power, praise, money, and preeminence--have always been there. Now, however,
many once-helpful support systems are bent or broken. Furthermore, the harmful
things of the world are marketed by pervasive technology and hyped by a media
barrage, potentially reaching almost every home and hamlet. All this when many
are already tuned out of spiritual things, saying, "I am rich, ... increased
with goods, and have need of nothing " ([Rev.
3:17](/scriptures/nt/rev/3.17?lang=eng#16)).

Contrastingly, the perks of discipleship are such that if we see a stretch
limousine pulling up, we know it is not calling for us. God's plan is not the
plan of pleasure; it is the "plan of happiness."

The tugs and pulls of the world are powerful. Worldly lifestyles are cleverly
reinforced by the rationalization, "Everybody is doing it," thus fanning or
feigning a majority. Products are promoted and attitudes engendered by clever
niche marketing.

Peter counseled, "Of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in
bondage" ([2 Pet. 2:19](/scriptures/nt/2-pet/2.19?lang=eng#18)). Brothers and
sisters, there are so many personalized prisons!

Scoffers display the shoulder-shrugging attitude foretold by Peter: "Where is
the promise of [Christ's] coming? for ... all things continue as they were from
the beginning of the creation" ([2 Pet.
3:4](/scriptures/nt/2-pet/3.4?lang=eng#3)). Such cynicism mistakes the
successive casts on the mortal stage for the absence of a Director or a
script.

Like goldfish in a bowl, some are mindless of who changes the water and puts
in the pellets (see [Jacob
4:13-14](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13-14?lang=eng#12)), or, like a kindergarten
child whose retrieving parent seems a little late, concluding, "Man is alone
in the universe."

Granted, some sincerely wish for more power in order to do good, but only a
few individuals are good enough to be powerful. But craving power and the
spotlight sucks out the spiritual oxygen, leaving some "past feeling" (see
[Eph. 4:19](/scriptures/nt/eph/4.19?lang=eng#18); [1 Ne.
17:45](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.45?lang=eng#44); [Moro.
9:20](/scriptures/bofm/moro/9.20?lang=eng#19)). Strangely, though
desensitized, some are still able to hear the beckoning click of a TV camera
at a hundred yards. Doesn't the churning over the places of mortal power
remind us of the childhood game of musical chairs?

Actually, discipleship may keep the honors of the world from us. As Balak told
Balaam, "I thought to promote thee unto great honour; but, lo, the Lord hath
kept thee back from honour" ([Num.
24:11-12](/scriptures/ot/num/24.11-12?lang=eng#10)). The rouge of recognition
is so easily smeared anyway. We wince as we watch those once flattered by the
world, like Judas, being used, despised, and discarded (see [D&amp;C
121:20](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.20?lang=eng#19)). Nevertheless, when
some of these are ready, even their hands need to be lifted up (see [Heb.
12:12](/scriptures/nt/heb/12.12?lang=eng#11); [D&amp;C 81:5](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/81.5?lang=eng#4)).

Thus, while granting the deserved role of commendation and praise, we must not
forget the words of Jesus about the recipients of mortal honors: "They have
their reward" ([Matt. 6:2, 5](/scriptures/nt/matt/6.2,5?lang=eng#1)).

There is an underlying reason, brothers and sisters, for all this
fleetingness: those who bestow the transitory things of the world are,
themselves, transients. They cannot confer that which is lasting because they
do not possess it! Some, so sensing and seeing so little, want to have it all
now!

Such lamentations as the foregoing lead to several specific suggestions.

To begin with, no remedy is more powerful than accessing--more than we do--the
gifts of the Holy Ghost!

Let us likewise honor the special place of the family. As James Q. Wilson
wrote:

"We learn to cope with the people of this world because we learn to cope with
the members of our family. Those who flee the family flee the world; bereft of
the [family's] affection, tutelage, and challenges, they are unprepared for
the [world's] tests, judgments, and demands" (_The Moral Sense_ [1993], 163).

How ironical that some go "into a far country" ([Luke
15:13](/scriptures/nt/luke/15.13?lang=eng#12)), leaving the nourishing family
garden--in which there may be some weeds--and go into a desert with its
tumbling sagebrush.

_Personal_ righteousness, worship, prayer, and scripture study are so crucial
in order to "[put] off the natural man" ([Mosiah
3:19](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18)). Be wary, therefore, when
some demand public tolerance for whatever their private indulgences are!

Whether young or old, we need to be good friends, but also to pick our friends
carefully. By choosing the Lord _first,_ choosing one's friends becomes easier
and much safer. Consider the contrasting friendships in the city of Enoch
compared to peers in the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah! The citizens of the
city of Enoch chose Jesus and a way of life, then became everlasting friends.
So much depends on whom and what we seek _first._

We can also emulate the spiritual reflexes of Joseph in Egypt: when he was
tempted, "he ... fled" ([Gen. 39:12](/scriptures/ot/gen/39.12?lang=eng#11)),
showing both courage and good legs! Youth and adults must get out of
circumstances and situations which threaten.

The returning prodigals are never numerous enough, but regularly some come
back from "a far country" ([Luke
15:13](/scriptures/nt/luke/15.13?lang=eng#12)). Of course, it is better if we
are humbled "because of the word" rather than being compelled by
circumstances, yet the latter may do! (see [Alma
32:13-14](/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.13-14?lang=eng#12)). Famine can induce
spiritual hunger.

Like the prodigal son, we too can go to "a far country," which may be no
further away than a vile rock concert. The distance to "a far country" is not
to be measured by miles but by how far our hearts and minds are from Jesus!
(see [Mosiah 5:13](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.13?lang=eng#12)). Fidelity, not
geography, really determines the distance!

Even with all of the world's powerful tugs and pulls, spiritual feelings can
and do assert themselves anyway. Doubts of doubt can intrude. All the quick
fixes do not really cure the emptiness and boredom of secularism.

Further, some who laboriously scale the secular heights find, after all, that
they are only squatting atop a small mound of sand! They have worked so hard
to get there!

But why covet wealth anyway, if we only "spend money for that which is of no
worth ... [and] which cannot satisfy" ([2 Ne.
9:51](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.51?lang=eng#50)).

Like Jesus, we can decide, daily or instantly, to give no heed to temptation
(see [D&amp;C 20:22](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.22?lang=eng#21)). We can
respond to irritation with a smile instead of scowl, or by giving warm praise
instead of icy indifference. By our being understanding instead of abrupt,
others, in turn, may decide to hold on a little longer rather than to give
way. Love, patience, and meekness can be just as contagious as rudeness and
crudeness.

We can also allow for redemptive turbulence, individually and generally (see
[2 Ne. 28:19](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.19?lang=eng#18)). Hearts set so much
upon the things of the world may have to be broken (see [D&amp;C
121:35](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.35?lang=eng#34)). Preoccupied minds
far from Him may be jolted by a "heads up" (see [Mosiah
5:13](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.13?lang=eng#12)).

Many individuals preoccupied by the cares of the world are not necessarily in
_transgression._ But they certainly are in _diversion_ and thus waste "the
days of [their] probation" ([2 Ne.
9:27](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.27?lang=eng#26)). Yet some proudly live "without
God in the world" ([Alma 41:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.11?lang=eng#10)),
with gates and doors locked from the inside!

Mark it down, brothers and sisters, people too caught up in themselves will
inevitably let other people down!

Let us adopt the attitude recommended by President Brigham Young: "Say to the
fields, ... flocks, ... herds, ... gold, ... silver, ... goods, ... chattels, ... tenements,
... possessions, and to all the world, stand aside; get away from my thoughts,
for I am going up to worship the Lord" (_Deseret News,_ 5 Jan. 1854, 2). There
are so many ways to say to the world, "stand aside."

Periodically, husbands and wives can reason together, taking inventory. Minor
corrections may be needed, and besides, such conversations can be more
precious than we know. Alas, so many couples are too busy.

Moments are the molecules that make up eternity! Years ago, President Hinckley
counseled: "It is not so much the major events as the small day-to-day
decisions that map the course of our living. ... Our lives are, in reality, the
sum total of our seemingly unimportant decisions and of our capacity to live
by those decisions" (_Caesar, Circus, or Christ? _Brigham Young University
Speeches of the Year [26 Oct. 1965], 3).

Mercifully, our errors can soon be swallowed up by resilient repentance,
showing the faith to try again--whether in a task or in a relationship. Such
resilience is really an affirmation of our true identities! Spirit sons and
daughters of God need not be permanently put down when lifted up by Jesus'
Atonement. Christ's infinite Atonement thus applies to our finite failures!
Hence, the pleading of that special hymn:

_Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it,_

_Prone to leave the God I love;_

_Here's my heart, O take and seal it;_

_Seal it for thy courts above._

It also helps in resisting the tugs and pulls of the world if we, though
imperfect, know that currently the course of our life is generally acceptable
to the Lord (see _Lectures on Faith_ [1985], 67). With sufficient dedication,
those quiet assurances can come!

The validation of our worth really comes from knowing _who we are,_ not solely
from _what we do._ Jesus' searching words remain: "What manner of men [and
women] ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am" ([3 Ne.
27:27](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26); see also [Matt.
5:48](/scriptures/nt/matt/5.48?lang=eng#47); [3 Ne.
12:48](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.48?lang=eng#47)).

Of course, worthwhile doing enhances our character and capacity, but mortal
circumstances and opportunities differ so greatly. But amid these differences,
we can still become more like Christ in our capacity _to be_--more loving,
meek, patient, and submissive.

By paying more attention to what _we are_ rather than exclusively to what _we
do,_ our public and our private persons will be the same--the man or the woman
of Christ. Our intrinsic value is _not dependent_ upon mortal acclaim anyway;
in fact, the world may actually see us as weak and foolish (see [1 Cor.
1:27](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/1.27?lang=eng#26)). Countering, however, are divine
affirmations, including this one: "The Spirit itself beareth witness with our
spirit, that we are the children of God" ([Rom.
8:16](/scriptures/nt/rom/8.16?lang=eng#15)).

God is infinitely more interested in our having a place in His kingdom than
with our spot on a mortal organizational chart. We may brood over our personal
span of control, but He is concerned with our capacity for self-control.
Father wants us to come home, bringing our real resumes, ourselves!

Even so, our mortal jealousies still occur regularly over money, turf, a
slight, or the "robes" and the "fatted calf" given to others (see [Luke
15:22-23](/scriptures/nt/luke/15.22-23?lang=eng#21)).

True belonging occurs when we know who we are and to whom we really belong!
Remember the popular lines in _Fiddler on the Roof_ about Anatevka? There,
"everyone knows _who_ he is and _what_ God expects him to _do_" (Joseph Stein,
_Fiddler on the Roof_ [1964], 3; emphasis added), to which might be added "and
what God expects him to _be._"

Yes, we are free to choose the mortal perks with their short shelf life.
However, ahead lies that great moment when every knee shall bow and every
tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ! (see [Mosiah
27:31](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/27.31?lang=eng#30); [D&amp;C
88:104](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.104?lang=eng#103)). Then the galleries
and the mortal thrones will be empty. Even the great and spacious building
will fall--and resoundingly! (see [1 Ne.
8:26-28](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/8.26-28?lang=eng#25)). Then, too, those who
have lived without God in the world will confess that God is God! (see [Mosiah
27:31](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/27.31?lang=eng#30)). Meanwhile, His character
and attributes should evoke adoration and emulation from us.

Isn't it marvelous, brothers and sisters, that God, _who knows everything,_
still spends time listening to our prayers? Compared to that cosmic fact, what
does the world really have to offer us? One round of applause, one fleeting
moment of adulation, or an approving glance from a phantom Caesar?

May God bless us to see things as they really are and as they really will be
(see [Jacob 4:13](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13?lang=eng#12); [D&amp;C
93:24](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.24?lang=eng#23)), and may we give the
glory and honor and praise unto God, which I now do. In the holy name of Jesus
Christ, amen!

## References

