# Remarks

We are pleased and honored that the United States Postal Service would select
the Arnold Friberg painting of the Salt Lake Temple as a postal card
commemorating the Church Sesquicentennial.

On Wednesday, 28 July 1847, less than a week after the first Mormon pioneers
had completed their weary trek into the desolate Salt Lake Valley, President
Brigham Young led some associates to the north end of the valley. He
identified the location that would be the site of the new temple and the
Church headquarters in the center of the city. For nearly half a century, the
shaping of that sacred edifice out of native materials, with handmade tools,
required the faith, dedication, labor, and sacrifice of the entire Mormon
community.

It may seem surprising that plans for such a monumental structure were made
even before the pioneers had moved out of their wagons. The temple was as
central to the lives of the Latter-day Saints as planning and building a new
home in the West.

The Salt Lake Temple was not the first temple built by the Church. Before the
Latter-day Saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley, two temples had been
completed--one in Kirtland, Ohio, and the other in Nauvoo, Illinois. Both
buildings were abandoned, however, as members of the Church were forced by
hostile neighbors to move west. Finally, in the unsettled valleys of the Rocky
Mountains, the Latter-day Saints were able to establish a permanent home where
they could find refuge and erect a temple.

Beginning with the selection of the site on the fourth day in the valley,
until his death in 1877, President Brigham Young, the second prophet and
president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, directed the
planning and construction of the Salt Lake Temple. At the ceremony for the
laying of the cornerstone in 1853, President Young revealed that he had seen
the temple in vision five years before when he selected the site. The size and
general shape of the structure, including the six spires, were prescribed by
him. (See _Discourses of Brigham Young, _sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City,
Deseret Book Company, 1941, p. 410.) Think of this--Brigham Young was
President of the Church, governor of the territory, Indian agent, and director
of many economic endeavors, yet he gave preeminent attention to the
construction of two temples, one in St. George and the other in Salt Lake
City.

Why such an emphasis on temples? Temples are structures of special
significance to Latter-day Saints. For our regular worship we build
meetinghouses, places where both members and nonmembers may congregate. But
temples are dedicated buildings preserved for the most sacred ordinances of
the Church.

It is impressive to know that two generations of craftsmen labored on this
temple during forty years of construction; that the huge quarried stones, each
weighing between 2,500 and 5,600 pounds, were initially conveyed twenty miles
to the temple block by ox-drawn carts; that masons sometimes worked on a
single stone an entire month. But its principal architect, Truman Angell, made
the design and construction of the temple his lifetime work. Impressive as
these facts are, this temple--like all others--was not erected as an
architectural monument. It was dedicated as the house of the Lord. That title
is most significant.

When the Savior walked the earth, he made a startling statement: "The foxes
have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not
where to lay his head" ([Matt.
8:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/8.20?lang=eng#19)). Many, in
reading that statement, have assumed Jesus was without a permanent home or
residence. There was another explanation. The temple of Solomon, the pattern
of which was given by revelation, dedicated as the house of the Lord, had been
destroyed. In its place another temple had been erected, but it too had been
desecrated. As he threw the money changers from the temple and its precincts,
he rebuked: "My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it
a den of thieves" ([Matt.
21:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/21.13?lang=eng#12)). Yes, the
Son of Man had no place to lay his head because there was no dedicated,
acceptable house of the Lord.

On 6 April 1853, when the cornerstone of the Salt Lake Temple was laid, there
still was no dedicated, acceptable house of the Lord. So in his dedicatory
remarks, President Brigham Young said: "What are we here for, this day? ... To
lay the foundation of a temple to the Most High God, so that when his Son, our
Elder Brother, shall again appear, he may have a place where he can lay his
head" (_Discourses of Brigham Young,_ p. 417).

To Latter-day Saints, the Salt Lake Temple and all other temples symbolize a
place of residence for the Son of God, a house of the Lord.

On this day we pay reverence, yes, reverent homage, to the foresight and
vision of our pioneer forefathers. We give thanks to God for his blessings and
bestowal of privileges in connection with the sacred temple ordinances. We
express appreciation to Arnold Friberg for his painting of the temple and to
the national and local postal officials who have provided this commemorative
issue of the Salt Lake Temple postal card. May this historic event cause us to
recall our sacred heritage is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

