# Why Me, O Lord?

I'm grateful to President Romney for trying to pronounce my name. When I go to
the next world I will ask my father if I can change my name. Thank you,
President Romney.

President Kimball, and all the Brethren of the General Authorities, and my
beloved brothers and sisters in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, today I
stand before you, humbly, to bear my testimony of the divinity of the gospel
of the Lord Jesus Christ. First of all, I express my deep, sincere
appreciation to those who have helped me and have been so kind to me and
motivated me, built me and taught me and guided me--wonderful help, wonderful
influence in my life. I'm grateful for my wife, Toshiko, and for my children.
President Kimball and all the brethren of the gospel and sisters, we need your
prayers.

Elder Gordon B. Hinckley gave me a special blessing when I was a green, green
bean of a missionary which has guided me in my life. My dear brothers and
sisters, I never expected to be called to such a heavy responsibility. I'm
still asking myself and the Lord, "Why me, O Lord? Why me, O Lord?" Yet, my
brothers and sisters, still within my soul I hear in the bosom of my heart, "I
will go where you want me to go, dear Lord, over mountain, or plain, or sea."
(See _Hymns,_ no. 75.)

Yet another voice is saying, "I will go and do the things which the Lord hath
commanded." ([1 Ne. 3:7](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/3.7?lang=eng#6).) Another voice
saying, "O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of my heart, that I
might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice that shakes the
earth, and cry repentance unto every people of the nations." (See [Alma
29:1](/scriptures/bofm/alma/29.1?lang=eng#0).)

My dear brothers and sisters, I love--I love our Heavenly Father. I know--I
know within my whole heart that God lives. I know that there is a living
prophet of God today, even Spencer W. Kimball. I love him. I will support him
with all my heart. The Book of Mormon is true, the true word of God. Brothers
and sisters, I leave you my testimony. I humbly do this in the name of the
Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

## References

