# A Doorway Called Love

Recently there moved over the wires of Associated Press a catalog of crime as
the daily happenings around the world were relayed to the media and thence to
the homes on every continent.

The headlines were brief. They highlighted murder, rape, robbery, molestation,
fraud, deceit, and corruption. I made note of several: "Man Slays Wife and
Children, Then Turns Gun on Self"; "Child Identifies Molester"; "Hundreds Lose
All As Multimillion-Dollar Scam Is Exposed." The sordid list continued. Shades
of Sodom, glimpses of Gomorrah.

President Ezra Taft Benson has often stated, "We live in a wicked world." The
Apostle Paul warned, "Men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous,
boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. ...
lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God" ([2 Tim.
3:2-4](/scriptures/nt/2-tim/3.2-4?lang=eng#1)).

Must we suffer the same fate as those who lived in the cities of the plain?
Can we not learn the lesson taught in the time of Noah? "Is there no balm in
Gilead?" ([Jer. 8:22](/scriptures/ot/jer/8.22?lang=eng#21)). Or is there a
doorway that leads us from the morass of worldliness onward and upward to the
high ground of righteousness? There echoes ever so gently to the honest mind
that personal invitation of the Lord: "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock:
if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him" ([Rev.
3:20](/scriptures/nt/rev/3.20?lang=eng#19)). Does that doorway have a name? It
surely does. I have chosen to call it "the doorway of love."

Love is the catalyst that causes change. Love is the balm that brings healing
to the soul. But love doesn't grow like weeds or fall like rain. Love has its
price. "God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that
whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life"
([John 3:16](/scriptures/nt/john/3.16?lang=eng#15)). That Son, even the Lord
Jesus Christ, gave His life that we might have eternal life, so great was His
love for His Father and for us.

This same Jesus was approached by a lawyer who asked, "Master, which is the
great commandment in the law?

"Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and
with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.

"This is the first and great commandment.

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

"On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" ([Matt.
22:36-40](/scriptures/nt/matt/22.36-40?lang=eng#35)).

In that tender and touching farewell, as He counseled His beloved disciples,
Jesus taught: "He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that
loveth me" ([John 14:21](/scriptures/nt/john/14.21?lang=eng#20)). Particularly
far-reaching was the instruction, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye
love one another; as I have loved you" ([John
13:34](/scriptures/nt/john/13.34?lang=eng#33)).

Little children can learn the lesson of love. Profound instruction from holy
writ ofttimes is not understood by them. However, they respond readily to a
favorite verse:

_"I love you, Mother," said little [John];_

_Then, forgetting his work, his cap went on,_

_And he was off to the garden swing,_

_Leaving her the water and wood to bring._

_"I love you, Mother," said rosy Nell--_

_"I love you better than tongue can tell";_

_Then she teased and pouted full half the day,_

_Till her mother rejoiced when she went to play._

_"I love you, Mother," said little Fan;_

_"Today I'll help you all I can;_

_How glad I am that school doesn't keep!"_

_So she rocked the babe till it fell asleep._

_Then, stepping softly, she fetched the broom,_

_And swept the floor and tidied the room;_

_Busy and happy all day was she,_

_Helpful and happy as child could be._

_"I love you, Mother," again they said,_

_Three little children going to bed;_

_How do you think that Mother guessed_

_Which of them really loved her best?_

Home should be a haven of love. Honor, courtesy, and respect symbolize love
and characterize the righteous family. Fathers in such homes will not hear the
denunciation of the Lord as recorded in the book of Jacob: "Ye have broken the
hearts of your tender wives, and lost the confidence of your children, because
of your bad examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascend up
to God against you" ([Jacob 2:35](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.35?lang=eng#34)).

In 3 Nephi the Master instructed: "There shall be no disputations among you. ...

"For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is
not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he
stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.

"Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one
against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done
away" ([3 Ne. 11:28-30](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.28-30?lang=eng#27)).

Where love is, there is no disputation. Where love is, there is no contention.
Where love is, there God will be also. Each of us has the responsibility to
keep His commandments. The lessons found in scripture find fulfillment in our
lives. Joseph Smith taught that "happiness is the object and design of our
existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to
it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping
all the commandments of God" (_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ sel.
Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, pp. 255-56).

In the classic musical production _Camelot,_ there is a line with words of
warning for all. After the familiar triangle began to deepen regarding King
Arthur, Lancelot, and Guenevere, King Arthur said, "We must not let our
passions destroy our dreams."

From that same production came another truth also spoken by Arthur as he
envisioned a better world: "Violence is not strength, and compassion is not
weakness."

In this world in which we live, there is a tendency for us to describe needed
change, required help, and desired relief with the familiar phrase, "They
ought to do something about this." We fail to define the word _they._ I love
the message, "Let there be peace on earth, and let it begin with me."

Tears came to my eyes when I read of a mere boy in one of our eastern cities
who noticed a vagrant asleep on a sidewalk and who then went to his own
bedroom, retrieved his own pillow, and placed it beneath the head of that one
whom he knew not. Perhaps there came from the precious past the welcome words:
"Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me" ([Matt. 25:40](/scriptures/nt/matt/25.40?lang=eng#39)).

I extol those who, with loving care and compassionate concern, feed the
hungry, clothe the naked, and house the homeless. He who notes the sparrow's
fall will not be unmindful of such service.

_A bell is no bell till you ring it,_

_A song is no song till you sing it,_

_And love in your heart wasn't put there to stay ... _

_Love isn't love till you give it away_

From the Holy Bible we read: "And it came to pass ... that [Jesus] went into a
city called Nain. ...

"When he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man
carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. ...

"And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep
not.

"And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still."

In the majesty of his messianic ministry, He declared: "Young man, I say unto
thee, Arise.

"And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his
mother" ([Luke 7:11-15](/scriptures/nt/luke/7.11-15?lang=eng#10)).

The desire to lift, the willingness to help, and the graciousness to give come
from a heart filled with love.

The poet wrote, "Love is the most noble attribute of the human soul." And
William Shakespeare cautioned, "They do not love who do not show their love"
(_Two Gentlemen of Verona,_ act 1, sc. 2, line 31).

A school teacher showed her love with her guiding philosophy: "No one fails in
my class. I have the responsibility to help each student succeed."

A priesthood quorum leader in Salt Lake City--a retired executive--said to me,
"This year I have helped twelve of my brethren who were out of work to obtain
permanent employment. I have never been happier in my entire life." Short in
stature, "Little Ed," as we affectionately called him, stood tall that day as
his eyes glistened and his voice quavered. He showed his love by helping those
in need.

A large and tough businessman, a wholesale vendor of poultry, showed his love
with a single comment made when one attempted to pay for twenty-four roasting
chickens. "The chickens are going to the widows, aren't they? There will be no
charge." As he placed them in the car trunk, he said in a faltering voice:
"And there are more where these came from."

Robert Woodruff, an executive in a former generation, traversed America with a
message which he delivered to civic and business groups. The outline was
simple, the message brief:

The five most important words are these: _I am proud of you._

The four most important words are these: _What is your opinion?_

The three most important words are these: _If you please._

The two most important words are these: _Thank you._

To Mr. Woodruff's list I would add, "The single most important word is
_love._"

A few years ago Morgan High School played Millard High for the state football
championship. From his wheelchair, to which Morgan coach Jan Smith was
confined, he said to his team: "This is the most important game of your lives.
You lose, and you will regret it forever. You win, and you will remember it
forever. Make every play as though it were all-important."

Behind the door, his wife, whom he tenderly referred to as his chief
assistant, overheard her husband say, "I love you guys. I don't care about the
ball game. I love you and want the game victory for you." Underdog Morgan High
won the football game and the state championship.

True love is a reflection of Christ's love. In December of each year we call
it the Christmas spirit. You can hear it. You can see it. You can feel it. But
never alone.

One winter day, I thought back to an experience from my boyhood. I was just
eleven. Our Primary president, Melissa, was an older and loving gray-haired
lady. One day at Primary, Melissa asked me to stay behind and visit with her.
There the two of us sat in the otherwise-empty chapel. She placed her arm
about my shoulder and began to cry.

Surprised, I asked her why she was crying.

She replied, "I don't seem to be able to encourage the Trail Builder boys to
be reverent during the opening exercises of Primary. Would you be willing to
help me, Tommy?"

I promised Melissa that I would. Strangely to me, but not to Melissa, that
ended any problem of reverence in that Primary. She had gone to the source of
the problem--me. The solution was love.

The years flew by. Marvelous Melissa, now in her nineties, lived in a nursing
facility in the northwest part of Salt Lake City. Just before Christmas I
determined to visit my beloved Primary president. Over the car radio, I heard
the song, "Hark! the herald angels sing; Glory to the newborn King!" (_Hymns,_
1985, no. 209.) I reflected on the visit made by wise men those long years
ago. They brought gifts of gold, of frankincense, and of myrrh. I brought only
the gift of love and a desire to say thank you.

I found Melissa in the lunchroom. She was staring at her plate of food,
teasing it with the fork she held in her aged hand. Not a bite did she eat. As
I spoke to her, my words were met by a benign but blank stare. I took the fork
in hand and began to feed Melissa, talking all the time I did so about her
service to boys and girls as a Primary worker. There wasn't so much as a
glimmer of recognition, far less a spoken word. Two other residents of the
nursing home gazed at me with puzzled expressions. At last they spoke, saying,
"Don't talk to her. She doesn't know anyone--even her own family. She hasn't
said a word in all the years she's been here."

Luncheon ended. My one-sided conversation wound down. I stood to leave. I held
her frail hand in mine, gazed into her wrinkled but beautiful countenance, and
said, "God bless you, Melissa. Merry Christmas."

Without warning, she spoke the words, "I know you. You're Tommy Monson, my
Primary boy. How I love you." She pressed my hand to her lips and bestowed on
it the kiss of love. Tears coursed down her cheeks and bathed our clasped
hands. Those hands, that day, were hallowed by heaven and graced by God. The
herald angels did sing. The words of the Master seemed to have a personal
meaning never before fully felt: "Woman, behold thy son!" And to his disciple,
"Behold thy mother!" (see [John
19:26-27](/scriptures/nt/john/19.26-27?lang=eng#25)).

Outside the sky was blue--azure blue. The air was cool--crispy cool. The snow
was white--crystal white.

From Bethlehem there seemed to echo the words:

_How silently, how silently_

_The wondrous gift is giv'n!_

_So God imparts to human hearts_

_The blessings of his heaven._

_No ear may hear his coming;_

_But in this world of sin,_

_Where meek souls will receive him, still_

_The dear Christ enters in_

The wondrous gift was given, the heavenly blessing was received, the dear
Christ had entered in--all through the doorway called love. I declare this
solemn truth in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

