# Patienceâ€”A Heavenly Virtue

Recently I met an old friend I had not seen for some time. He greeted me with
the salutation, "How is the world treating you?" I don't recall the specifics
of my reply, but his provocative question caused me to reflect on my many
blessings and my gratitude for life itself and the privilege and opportunity
to serve.

At times the response to this same question brings an unanticipated answer.
Some years ago I attended a stake conference in Texas. I was met at the
airport by the stake president, and while we were driving to the stake center,
I said, "President, how is everything going for you?"

He responded, "I wish you had asked me that question a week earlier, for this
week has been rather eventful. On Friday I was terminated from my employment,
this morning my wife came down with bronchitis, and this afternoon the family
dog was struck and killed by a passing car. Other than these things, I guess
everything is all right."

Life is full of difficulties, some minor and others of a more serious nature.
There seems to be an unending supply of challenges for one and all. Our
problem is that we often expect instantaneous solutions to such challenges,
forgetting that frequently the heavenly virtue of patience is required.

The counsel heard in our youth is still applicable today and should be heeded.
"Hold your horses," "Keep your shirt on," "Slow down," "Don't be in such a
hurry," "Follow the rules," "Be careful" are more than trite expressions. They
describe sincere counsel and speak the wisdom of experience.

The mindless and reckless speeding of a youth-filled car down a winding and
hazardous canyon road can bring a sudden loss of control, the careening of the
car with its precious cargo over the precipice, and the downward plunge that
ofttimes brings permanent incapacity, perhaps premature death, and grieving
hearts of loved ones. The glee-filled moment can turn in an instant to a
lifetime of regret.

Oh, precious youth, please give life a chance. Apply the virtue of patience.

In sickness, with its attendant pain, patience is required. If the only
perfect man who ever lived--even Jesus of Nazareth--was called upon to endure
great suffering, how can we, who are less than perfect, expect to be free of
such challenges?

Who can count the vast throngs of the lonely, the aged, the helpless--those
who feel abandoned by the caravan of life as it moves relentlessly onward and
then disappears beyond the sight of those who ponder, who wonder, and who
sometimes question as they are left alone with their thoughts. Patience can be
a helpful companion during such stressful times.

Occasionally I visit nursing homes, where long-suffering is found. While
attending Sunday services at one facility, I noticed a young girl who was to
play her violin for the comfort of those assembled. She told me she was
nervous and hoped she could do her best. As she played, one called out, "Oh,
you are so pretty, and you play so beautifully." The strains of the moving bow
across the taut strings and the elegant movement of the young girl's fingers
seemed inspired by the impromptu comment. She played magnificently.

Afterward, I congratulated her and her gifted accompanist. They responded, "We
came to cheer the frail, the sick, and the elderly. Our fears vanished as we
played. We forgot our own cares and concerns. We may have cheered them, but
they truly did inspire us."

Sometimes the tables are reversed. A dear and cherished young friend, Wendy
Bennion of Salt Lake City, was such an example. Just the day before yesterday,
she quietly departed mortality and returned "to that God who gave [her] life"
([Alma 40:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.11?lang=eng#10)). She had struggled for
over five long years in her battle with cancer. Ever cheerful, always reaching
out to help others, never losing faith, her contagious smile attracted others
to her as a magnet attracts metal shavings. While ill and in pain, a friend of
hers, feeling downcast with her own situation, visited Wendy. Nancy, Wendy's
mother, knowing Wendy was in extreme pain, felt that perhaps the friend had
stayed too long. She asked Wendy, after the friend had left, why she had
allowed her to stay so long when she herself was in so much pain. Wendy's
response: "What I was doing for my friend was a lot more important than the
pain I was having. If I can help her, then the pain is worth it." Her attitude
was reminiscent of Him who bore the sorrows of the world, who patiently
suffered excruciating pain and disappointment, but who, with silent step of
His sandaled feet, passed by a man who was blind from birth, restoring his
sight. He approached the grieving widow of Nain and raised her son from the
dead. He trudged up Calvary's steep slope, carrying His own cruel cross,
undistracted by the constant jeers and taunting that accompanied His every
step. For He had an appointment with divine destiny. In a very real way He
visits us, each one, with His teachings. He brings cheer and inspires
goodness. He gave His precious life that the grave would be deprived of its
victory, that death would lose its sting, that life eternal would be our gift.

Taken from the cross, buried in a borrowed tomb, this man of sorrows,
acquainted with grief, arose on the morning of the third day. His resurrection
was discovered by Mary and the other Mary when they approached the tomb. The
great stone blocking the entrance had been rolled away. Came the query of two
angels who stood by in shining garments, "Why seek ye the living among the
dead? He is not here, but is risen."[1]

Paul declared to the Hebrews, "Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about
with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin
which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is
set before us."[2]

Perhaps there has never occurred such a demonstration of patience as that
exemplified by Job, who was described in the Holy Bible as being perfect and
upright and one who feared God and eschewed evil.[3] He was blessed with great
wealth and riches in abundance. Satan obtained leave from the Lord to try to
tempt Job. How great was Job's misery, how terrible his loss, how tortured his
life. Urged by his wife to curse God and die, his reply bespoke his faith: "I
know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon
the earth: And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh
shall I see God."[4] What faith, what courage, what trust. Job lost
possessions--all of them. Job lost his health--all of it. Job honored the
trust given him. Job personified patience.

Another who portrayed the virtue of patience was the Prophet Joseph Smith.
After his supernal experience in the grove called Sacred, where the Father and
the Son appeared to him, he was called upon to wait. At length, after Joseph
suffered through over three years of derision for his beliefs, the angel
Moroni appeared to him. And then more waiting and patience were required. Let
us remember the counsel found in Isaiah: "My thoughts are not your thoughts,
neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher
than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than
your thoughts."[5]

Today in our hurried and hectic lives, we could well go back to an earlier
time for the lesson taught us regarding crossing dangerous streets. "Stop,
look, and listen" were the watchwords. Could we not apply them now? Stop from
a reckless road to ruin. Look upward for heavenly help. Listen for His
invitation: "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will
give you rest."[6]

He will teach us the truth of the beautiful verse:

_Life is real! Life is earnest!_

_And the grave is not its goal;_

_Dust thou art, to dust returnest,_

_Was not spoken of the soul._[7]

We will learn that each of us is precious to our Elder Brother, even the Lord
Jesus Christ. He truly loves us.

His life is the flawless example of one afflicted with sorrows and
disappointments, who nonetheless provided the example of forgetting self and
serving others. The remembered verse of childhood echoes afresh:

_Yes, Jesus loves me!_

_Yes, Jesus loves me!_

_Yes, Jesus loves me!_

_The Bible tells me so!_[8]

And so does the Book of Mormon, so does the Doctrine and Covenants, and so
does the Pearl of Great Price. Let the scriptures be your guide, and you will
never find yourself traveling the road to nowhere.

Today, some are out of work, out of money, out of self-confidence. Hunger
haunts their lives, and discouragement dogs their paths. But help is here--
even food for the hungry, clothing for the naked, and shelter for the
homeless.

Thousands of tons move outward from our Church storehouses weekly--even food,
clothing, medical equipment and supplies to the far corners of the earth and
to empty cupboards and needy people closer to home.

I witness the motivation which prompts busy and talented dentists and doctors
on a regular basis to leave their practices and donate their skills to those
who need such help. They travel to faraway places to repair cleft palates,
correct malformed bones, and restore crippled bodies--all for the love of
God's children. The afflicted who have patiently waited for corrective help
are blessed by these "angels in disguise."

In the words of a well-known song, I wish you could "come fly with me" to
eastern Germany, where I visited last month. As we traveled along the
autobahns, I reflected on a time twenty-seven years before when I saw on the
same autobahns just trucks carrying armed soldiers and policemen. Barking dogs
everywhere strained on their leashes, and informers walked the streets. Back
then, the flame of freedom had flickered and burned low. A wall of shame
sprang up, and a curtain of iron came down. Hope was all but snuffed out.
Life, precious life, continued on in faith, nothing wavering. Patient waiting
was required. An abiding trust in God marked the life of each Latter-day
Saint.

When I made my initial visit beyond the wall, it was a time of fear on the
part of our members as they struggled in the performance of their duties. I
found the dullness of despair on the faces of many passersby but a bright and
beautiful expression of love emanating from our members. In Gorlitz the
building in which we met was shell-pocked from the war, but the interior
reflected the tender care of our leaders in bringing brightness and
cleanliness to an otherwise shabby and grimy structure. The Church had
survived both the war and the Cold War which followed. The singing of the
Saints brightened every soul. They sang the old Sunday School favorite:

_If the way be full of trial; Weary not!_

_If it's one of sore denial, Weary not!_

_If it now be one of weeping,_

_There will come a joyous greeting,_

_When the harvest we are reaping--Weary not!_

_Do not weary by the way,_

_Whatever be thy lot;_

_There awaits a brighter day_

_To all, to all who weary not!_[9]

I was touched by their sincerity. I was humbled by their poverty. They had so
little. My heart filled with sorrow because they had no patriarch. They had no
wards or stakes--just branches. They could not receive temple blessings--
neither endowment nor sealing. No official visitor had come from Church
headquarters in a long time. The members were forbidden to leave the country.
Yet they trusted in the Lord with all their hearts, and they leaned not to
their own understanding. In all their ways they acknowledged Him, and He
directed their paths.[10] I stood at the pulpit, and with tear-filled eyes and
a voice choked with emotion, I made a promise to the people: "If you will
remain true and faithful to the commandments of God, every blessing any member
of the Church enjoys in any other country will be yours."

That night as I realized what I had promised, I dropped to my knees and
prayed, "Heavenly Father, I'm on Thy errand; this is Thy church. I have spoken
words that came not from me, but from Thee and Thy Son. Wilt Thou, therefore,
fulfill the promise in the lives of this noble people." There coursed through
my mind the words from the psalm, "Be still, and know that I am God."[11] The
heavenly virtue of patience was required.

Little by little the promise was fulfilled. First, patriarchs were ordained,
then lesson manuals produced. Wards were formed and stakes created. Chapels
and stake centers were begun, completed, and dedicated. Then, miracle of
miracles, a holy temple of God was permitted, designed, constructed, and
dedicated. Finally, after an absence of fifty years, approval was granted for
full-time missionaries to enter the nation and for local youth to serve
elsewhere in the world. Then, like the wall of Jericho, the Berlin Wall
crumbled, and freedom, with its attendant responsibilities, returned.

All of the parts of the precious promise of twenty-seven years earlier were
fulfilled, save one. Tiny Gorlitz, where the promise had been given, still had
no chapel of its own. Now, even that dream became a reality. The building was
approved and completed. Dedication day dawned. Just a month ago, Sister Monson
and I, along with Elder and Sister Dieter Uchtdorf, held a meeting of
dedication in Gorlitz. The same songs were sung as were rendered twenty-seven
years earlier. The members knew the significance of the occasion, marking the
total fulfillment of the promise. They wept as they sang. The song of the
righteous was indeed a prayer unto the Lord and had been answered with a
blessing upon their heads.[12]

At the conclusion of the meeting we were reluctant to leave. As we did so,
seen were the waving hands of all, heard were the words, "_Auf Wiedersehen,
auf Wiedersehen;_ God be with you till we meet again."

Patience, that heavenly virtue, had brought to humble Saints its heaven-sent
reward. The words of Rudyard Kipling's "Recessional" seemed so fitting:

_The tumult and the shouting dies;_

_The captains and the kings depart._

_Still stands thine ancient sacrifice,_

_An humble and a contrite heart._

_Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,_

_Lest we forget, lest we forget._[13]

In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. [Luke 24:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/24.5-6?lang=eng#4).

  2. [Heb. 12:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/12.1?lang=eng#0).

  3. See [Job 1:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/1.1?lang=eng#0).

  4. [Job 19:25-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/19.25-26?lang=eng#24).

  5. [Isa. 55:8-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/55.8-9?lang=eng#7).

  6. [Matt. 11:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28?lang=eng#27).

  7. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "A Psalm of Life."

  8. "Jesus Loves Me!" _Alexander's Gospel Songs,_ comp. Charles M. Alexander (New York: Fleming H. Revell Co., 1908), p. 139.

  9. "If the Way Be Full of Trial, Weary Not," _Deseret Sunday School Songs,_ 1909, no. 158.

  10. See [Prov. 3:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/3.5-6?lang=eng#4).

  11. [Ps. 46:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/46.10?lang=eng#9).

  12. See [D&amp;C 25:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/25.12?lang=eng#11).

  13. _Hymns,_ 1985, no. 80.

