# Constancy amid Change

I echo President Monson's compliments to Brother Peterson, Brother Komatsu,
and Brother de Jager. They have earned our greatest commendation. And I, too,
join with others who feel a debt of gratitude to this wonderful chorus of
youth from Brigham Young University. They're wonderful.

Our youth are wonderful and especially able to ask thoughtful questions.
Recently I had a conversation with "Ruth" and "John." Ruth opened the
discussion. With a sigh, she lamented, "Our world is constantly changing,
isn't it?"

"Yes," I replied, "ever since its creation--geologically and geographically.
And its populations are changing--politically and spiritually. You might ask
your grandparents about life when they were your age and discover their
thoughts."

"Oh, I already have," Ruth continued. "My grandpa summarized his opinion with
a clever quip: 'Give me the good old days--plus penicillin.'"

Then John expressed deep concern. "Continually changing conditions make the
future shaky for us," he said. "It's kind of scary. We seem to be standing on
shifting sand."

Together they asked, "What can we trust? Is anything constant that will _not_
change as we grow older?"

To that question I responded with an emphatic, "Yes! Many things!" Because
Ruth and John are typical of many today who seek for unchanging constants in a
changing world, I would like to address that subject, titling my remarks
"Constancy amid Change." Through the years, prophets and Apostles have spoken
of many unchanging constants.[1] To facilitate this discussion, I will group
some of these constants into three categories: heavenly personages, plans, and
principles.

## I. Personages

Our Heavenly Father has a glorified body of flesh and bone, inseparably
connected with His spirit.[2] Scriptures state that He is "infinite and
eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God" ([D&amp;C
20:17](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.17?lang=eng#16)).[3]

His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, is our Savior and the chief cornerstone of our
religion.[4] "He is the life and the light of the world" ([Alma
38:9](/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.9?lang=eng#8)).[5] "There shall be no other
name ... nor any other way ... whereby salvation can come unto the children of
men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent" ([Mosiah
3:17](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.17?lang=eng#16)).[6]

Another personage is the Holy Ghost, whose enduring influence transcends time.
Scripture assures that "the Holy Ghost shall be thy _constant_ companion, and
thy scepter an _unchanging_ scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy
dominion shall be an _everlasting_ dominion, and without compulsory means it
shall flow unto thee _forever_ and ever" ([D&amp;C 121:46](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.46?lang=eng#45); emphasis added).

Brothers and sisters, these Heavenly Beings love you. Their love is as
constant as is the greatest love of earthly parents.

But there is another personage about whom you should be reminded. Satan also
exists and seeks "that all men might be miserable like unto himself" ([2 Ne.
2:27](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.27?lang=eng#26)).[7]

## II. Plans

I speak now of category two--unchanging plans. A great council in heaven was
once convened, in which it seems that all of us participated.[8] There our
Heavenly Father announced His plan. Scriptures refer to this plan of God[9] by
many names. Perhaps out of deference to the sacred name of Deity, or to depict
its broad scope, it is also called the plan of happiness,[10] the plan of
salvation,[11] the plan of redemption,[12] the plan of restoration,[13] the
plan of mercy,[14] the plan of deliverance,[15] and the everlasting
gospel.[16] Prophets have used these terms interchangeably. Regardless of
designation, the enabling essence of the plan is the atonement of Jesus
Christ. As it is central to the plan,[17] we should try to comprehend the
meaning of the Atonement. Before we can comprehend it, though, we must
understand the fall of Adam. And before we can fully appreciate the Fall, we
must first comprehend the Creation. These three events--the Creation, the
Fall, and the Atonement--are three preeminent pillars of God's plan, and they
are doctrinally interrelated.

**_The Creation_**

The creation of the earth was a preparatory part of our Father's plan. Then
"the Gods went down to organize man in their own image, ... male and female to
form they them.

"And the Gods said: We will bless them" ([Abr.
4:27-28](/scriptures/pgp/abr/4.27-28?lang=eng#26)). And bless us they did,
with a plan that would give us physical bodies of our very own.

Adam and Eve were the first people to live upon the earth.[18] They were
different from the plant and animal life that had been created previously.
Adam and Eve were children of God. Their bodies of flesh and bone were made in
the express image of God's. In that state of innocence, they were not yet
mortal. They could have had no children,[19] were not subject to death, and
could have lived in Eden's garden forever.[20] Thus, we might speak of the
Creation in terms of a _paradisiacal_ creation.

If that state had persisted, you and I would still be stranded among the
heavenly host as unborn sons and daughters of God.[21] "The great plan of
[happiness] would have been frustrated" ([Alma
42:5](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.5?lang=eng#4)).[22]

**_The Fall_**

That leads us to the fall of Adam. To bring the plan of happiness to fruition,
God issued to Adam and Eve the first commandment ever given to mankind. It was
a commandment to beget children.[23] A law was explained to them. Should they
eat from "the tree of the knowledge of good and evil" ([Gen.
2:17](/scriptures/ot/gen/2.17?lang=eng#16)), their bodies would change;
mortality and eventual death would come upon them.[24] But partaking of that
fruit was prerequisite to their parenthood.[25]

While I do not fully understand all the biochemistry involved, I do know that
their physical bodies did change; blood began to circulate in their bodies.
Adam and Eve thereby became mortal. Happily for us, they could also beget
children and fulfill the purposes for which the world was created. Happily for
them, "the Lord said unto Adam [and Eve[26]]: Behold I have forgiven thee thy
transgression in the Garden of Eden" ([Moses
6:53](/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.53?lang=eng#52)). We and all mankind are forever
blessed because of Eve's great courage and wisdom. By partaking of the fruit
first, she did what needed to be done. Adam was wise enough to do likewise.
Accordingly, we could speak of the fall of Adam in terms of a _mortal_
creation, because "Adam fell that men might be" ([2 Ne.
2:25](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.25?lang=eng#24)).[27]

Other blessings came to us through the Fall. It activated two closely coupled
additional gifts from God, nearly as precious as life itself--agency and
accountability. We became "free to choose liberty and eternal life ... or to
choose captivity and death" ([2 Ne.
2:27](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.27?lang=eng#26)). Freedom of choice cannot be
exercised without accountability for choices made.[28]

**_The Atonement_**

Now we come to the third pillar of God's plan--the Atonement. Just as Adam and
Eve were not to live forever in the Garden of Eden, so our final destination
was not to be planet earth. We were to return to our heavenly home.

Given that reality, still another change was necessary. An infinite atonement
was required to redeem Adam, Eve, and all of their posterity. That atonement
must enable our physical bodies to be resurrected and changed[29] to a
bloodless form, no longer liable to disease, deterioration, or death.

According to eternal law, that atonement required a personal sacrifice by an
immortal being not subject to death. Yet He must die and take up His own body
again. The Savior was the only one who could accomplish this. From His mother
He inherited power to die. From His Father He obtained power over death. The
Redeemer so explained:

"I lay down my life, that I might take it again.

"No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it
down, and I have power to take it again" ([John
10:17-18](/scriptures/nt/john/10.17-18?lang=eng#16)).

The Lord declared that "this is my work and my glory--to bring to pass the
immortality and eternal life of man" ([Moses
1:39](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.39?lang=eng#38)). He who had created the earth
came into mortality to fulfill the will of His Father[30] and all prophecies
of His atonement.[31] And His atonement redeems every soul from penalties of
personal transgression, on the condition of repentance.[32]

Thus, we might speak of the Atonement in terms of the _immortal_ creation.
"For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" ([1 Cor.
15:22](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.22?lang=eng#21)).

I have recounted the importance of the Creation, the Fall, and the Atonement,
knowing that parents are accountable to teach these precepts of God's plan to
their children.[33]

Before leaving our discussion of unchanging plans, however, we need to
remember that the adversary sponsors a cunning plan of his own.[34] It
invariably attacks God's first commandment for husband and wife to beget
children. It tempts with tactics that include infidelity, unchastity, and
other abuses of procreative power. Satan's band would trumpet choice, but mute
accountability. Nevertheless, his capacity has long been limited, "for he knew
not the mind of God" ([Moses 4:6](/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.6?lang=eng#5)).

I speak now of category three--unchanging principles.

## III. Principles

Unchanging principles are so because they come from our unchanging Heavenly
Father. Try as they might, no parliament or congress could ever repeal the law
of earth's gravity or amend the Ten Commandments. Those laws are constant. All
laws of nature and of God are part of the everlasting gospel. Thus, there are
many unchanging principles. Time will permit consideration of only a few.

**_Priesthood_**

One of them is that of the priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that
"the Priesthood is an everlasting principle, and existed with God from
eternity, and will to eternity, without beginning of days or end of years"
(_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ p. 157).[35]

We know that "the Priesthood was first given to Adam; he obtained the First
Presidency, and held the keys of it from generation to generation. He obtained
it in the Creation, before the world was formed" (_Teachings of the Prophet
Joseph Smith,_ p. 157).

Scriptures certify that the priesthood has continued and will continue
"through the lineage of [the] fathers" ([D&amp;C 86:8](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/86.8?lang=eng#7)).[36] Ordination to its offices has timeless
implication as well. Tenure in priesthood office may extend into postmortal
realms. For example, scriptures declare that one ordained as a high priest may
be a high priest forever.[37] Promised _blessings_ of the priesthood extend to
men, women, and children throughout the world and may endure forever.[38]

The use of the priesthood is carefully controlled according to conditions
established by the Lord, who said:

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the
priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness,
and by love unfeigned" ([D&amp;C 121:41](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.41?lang=eng#40)).

"That [the rights of the priesthood] may be conferred upon [men], it is true;
but when [they] undertake to cover [their] sins, or to gratify [their] pride,
[their] vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon
the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, ... the
Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the
priesthood or the authority of that man" ([D&amp;C 121:37](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.37?lang=eng#36)).

While the priesthood is an everlasting principle, those privileged to exercise
its authority must maintain themselves daily as worthy vessels.

**_Moral Law_**

Another unchanging principle is that of divine or moral law. Transgression of
moral law brings retribution; obedience to it brings blessings "immutable and
unchangeable" ([D&amp;C 104:2](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/104.2?lang=eng#1)).
Blessings are always predicated upon obedience to law.[39] So the Church
teaches us to embrace the right and to renounce the wrong--that we might have
joy.[40]

The Savior and His servants[41] do not speak words of complacency but teach
what people need to know. Through the ages, history attests that contemporary
critics have pressed Church leaders to modify a decree of the Lord.[42] But
such is eternal law, and it cannot be altered. Not even for His Beloved Son
could God change the law that required the Atonement. Divine doctrines cannot
be squeezed into compact molds to make them fit fashionable patterns of the
day. Nor can they be fully expressed on a bumper sticker.

**_Judgment_**

Another unchanging principle, brothers and sisters, is that of your eventual
judgment. Each of you will be judged according to your individual works and
the desires of your hearts.[43] You will not be required to pay the debt of
any other. Your eventual placement in the celestial, terrestrial, or telestial
kingdom will not be determined by chance. The Lord has prescribed unchanging
requirements for each. You can know what the scriptures teach, and pattern
your lives accordingly.[44]

**_Divine Commandments_**

Other unchanging principles include divine commandments--even those that seem
to be temporal. Tithing, for example, is not temporal (or temporary); it is an
everlasting principle. The Lord said:

"Those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest
annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them _forever"_ ([D&amp;C
119:4](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/119.4?lang=eng#3); emphasis added).

We know that tithe payers shall not be burned at the Second Coming.[45]

**_Truth_**

Another unchanging principle is that of truth. Scripture reminds us that "the
truth abideth forever and ever" ([D&amp;C 1:39](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.39?lang=eng#38)).[46] Even though one's understanding of the
truth may be fragmentary, truth itself does not change. Everlasting truth and
wisdom come from the Lord. The first truth ever taught to man came directly
from Deity. From generation to generation, God has given additional light.
Whether truth comes from a laboratory of science or directly by revelation,
truth is embraced by the gospel.

**_Family_**

May I mention one more everlasting principle--the family. A family can be
together forever. Though each of us will pass through the doors of death, the
timing of that departure is less important than is the preparation for eternal
life. Part of that preparation includes service in the Church. It is not to be
a burden but a blessing to a family. The Lord said, "Thy duty is unto the
church forever, and this because of thy family" ([D&amp;C 23:3](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/23.3?lang=eng#2)).[47]

Ruth, John, and each of you will more fully understand that concept in light
of this scriptural promise:

"If a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and
everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them ... [they] shall inherit
thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers, dominions, ... exaltation and
glory in all things, ... which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of
the seeds forever and ever" ([D&amp;C 132:19](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/132.19?lang=eng#18)).

A promise like that is worth your personal effort and endurance.

Constancy amid change is assured by heavenly personages, plans, and
principles. Our trust can be safely anchored to them. They provide peace,
eternal progression, hope, freedom, love, and joy to all who will be guided by
them. They are true--now and forever--I testify in the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

## References

  1. For example, see Albert E. Bowen, _Constancy Amid Change_ (Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1944); N. Eldon Tanner, _Ensign,_ Nov. 1979, pp. 80-82.

  2. See [D&amp;C 93:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.33?lang=eng#32); [D&amp;C 130:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.22?lang=eng#21).

  3. See also [Ps. 100:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/100.5?lang=eng#4); [Morm. 9:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/9.19?lang=eng#18); [Moro. 8:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.18?lang=eng#17); [D&amp;C 84:102](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.102?lang=eng#101).

  4. See [Eph. 2:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/2.20?lang=eng#19).

  5. See also [Mosiah 16:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/16.9?lang=eng#8); [3 Ne. 9:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/9.18?lang=eng#17); [3 Ne. 11:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.11?lang=eng#10); [Ether 4:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/4.12?lang=eng#11); [D&amp;C 10:70](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/10.70?lang=eng#69); [D&amp;C 11:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/11.28?lang=eng#27); [D&amp;C 12:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/12.9?lang=eng#8); [D&amp;C 34:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/34.2?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 39:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/39.2?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 45:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.7?lang=eng#6).

  6. See also [Acts 4:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/4.12?lang=eng#11); [2 Ne. 25:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.20?lang=eng#19); [Mosiah 5:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.8?lang=eng#7); [Alma 38:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.9?lang=eng#8); [Hel. 5:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.9?lang=eng#8); [D&amp;C 18:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.23?lang=eng#22).

  7. See also [2 Ne. 2:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.18?lang=eng#17); [Alma 41:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.4?lang=eng#3)

  8. See _Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ pp. 348-49, 365.

  9. See [2 Ne. 9:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma 34:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.9?lang=eng#8).

  10. See [Alma 42:8, 16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.8,16?lang=eng#7).

  11. See [Jarom 1:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jarom/1.2?lang=eng#1); [Alma 24:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/24.14?lang=eng#13); [Alma 42:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.5?lang=eng#4); [Moses 6:62](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.62?lang=eng#61).

  12. See [Jacob 6:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/6.8?lang=eng#7); [Alma 12:25-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.25-33?lang=eng#24); [Alma 17:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/17.16?lang=eng#15); [Alma 18:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/18.39?lang=eng#38); [Alma 22:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/22.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma 29:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/29.2?lang=eng#1); [Alma 34:16, 31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.16,31?lang=eng#15); [Alma 39:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.18?lang=eng#17); [Alma 42:11-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.11-13?lang=eng#10).

  13. See [Alma 41:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.2?lang=eng#1).

  14. See [Alma 42:15, 31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.15,31?lang=eng#14); [2 Ne. 9:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.6?lang=eng#5).

  15. See [2 Ne. 11:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/11.5?lang=eng#4).

  16. See [Rev. 14:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/14.6?lang=eng#5); [D&amp;C 27:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.5?lang=eng#4); [D&amp;C 36:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/36.5?lang=eng#4); [D&amp;C 68:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/68.1?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C 77:8, 9, 11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/77.8,9,11?lang=eng#7); [D&amp;C 79:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/79.1?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C 84:103](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.103?lang=eng#102); [D&amp;C 88:103](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.103?lang=eng#102); [D&amp;C 99:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/99.1?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C 101:22, 39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.22,39?lang=eng#21); [D&amp;C 106:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/106.2?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 109:29, 65](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/109.29,65?lang=eng#28); [D&amp;C 124:88](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.88?lang=eng#87); [D&amp;C 128:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.17?lang=eng#16); [D&amp;C 133:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.36?lang=eng#35); [D&amp;C 135:3, 7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/135.3,7?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C 138:19, 25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.19,25?lang=eng#18); [JS--H 1:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.34?lang=eng#33).

  17. See _Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ p. 121.

  18. See [Gen. 3:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/3.20?lang=eng#19); [1 Ne. 5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/5.11?lang=eng#10); [Moses 4:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.26?lang=eng#25).

  19. See [2 Ne. 2:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.23?lang=eng#22); [Moses 5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.11?lang=eng#10).

  20. See [2 Ne. 2:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.22?lang=eng#21).

  21. See [D&amp;C 38:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/38.1?lang=eng#0); [Abr. 3:22-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.22-23?lang=eng#21).

  22. See also [D&amp;C 138:56](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.56?lang=eng#55).

  23. See [Gen. 1:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/1.28?lang=eng#27); [Moses 2:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/2.28?lang=eng#27); [Abr. 4:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/4.28?lang=eng#27).

  24. See [Moses 3:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/3.17?lang=eng#16); [Abr. 5:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/5.13?lang=eng#12).

  25. See [Moses 5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.11?lang=eng#10).

  26. The Lord "called _their_ name Adam" (Gen. 5:2; Moses 6:9; emphasis added).

  27. See also [Moses 6:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.48?lang=eng#47).

  28. See [D&amp;C 101:78](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.78?lang=eng#77); [D&amp;C 134:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/134.1?lang=eng#0).

  29. See [1 Cor. 15:51-53](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.51-53?lang=eng#50); [3 Ne. 28:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/28.8?lang=eng#7).

  30. See [3 Ne. 27:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.13?lang=eng#12).

  31. See [Rom. 5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/5.11?lang=eng#10); [2 Ne. 25:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.16?lang=eng#15); [Jacob 4:11, 12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.11,12?lang=eng#10); [Mosiah 3:5-11, 16, 18-19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.5-11,16,18-19?lang=eng#4); [Mosiah 4:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.2?lang=eng#1); [Alma 21:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/21.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 22:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/22.14?lang=eng#13); [Alma 34:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.8?lang=eng#7); [Alma 36:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.17?lang=eng#16); [Hel. 5:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.9?lang=eng#8); [Moro. 7:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.41?lang=eng#40); [Moses 7:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.45?lang=eng#44).

  32. See [D&amp;C 138:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.19?lang=eng#18).

  33. See [Moses 6:57-62](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.57-62?lang=eng#56).

  34. See [2 Ne. 9:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.28?lang=eng#27).

  35. See also [Ex. 40:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/40.15?lang=eng#14); [Num. 25:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/num/25.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma 13:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.7?lang=eng#6).

  36. See also [D&amp;C 84:6-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.6-17?lang=eng#5); [D&amp;C 107:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.40?lang=eng#39); [Abr. 1:2-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/1.2-4?lang=eng#1).

  37. See [Alma 13:9, 14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.9,14?lang=eng#8).

  38. See [Gen. 17:1-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/17.1-7?lang=eng#0); [Gen. 22:16-18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/22.16-18?lang=eng#15); [Gen. 26:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/26.3-4?lang=eng#2); [Gen. 28:13-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/28.13-14?lang=eng#12); [Isa. 2:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/2.2-3?lang=eng#1); [1 Ne. 15:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.18?lang=eng#17); [Alma 29:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/29.8?lang=eng#7); [D&amp;C 124:58](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.58?lang=eng#57); [D&amp;C 132:47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.47?lang=eng#46); [Abr. 2:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.11?lang=eng#10).

  39. See [D&amp;C 130:20-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.20-21?lang=eng#19).

  40. See [2 Ne. 2:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.25?lang=eng#24).

  41. See [D&amp;C 1:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.38?lang=eng#37).

  42. For examples, see [1 Sam. 8:4-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-sam/8.4-7?lang=eng#3); [Matt. 7:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.21?lang=eng#20); [Luke 6:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/6.46?lang=eng#45); [3 Ne. 14:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/14.21?lang=eng#20).

  43. See [D&amp;C 137:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/137.9?lang=eng#8).

  44. See [John 14:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.2?lang=eng#1); [1 Cor. 15:40-41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.40-41?lang=eng#39); [D&amp;C 76:50-119](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.50-119?lang=eng#49); [D&amp;C 98:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/98.18?lang=eng#17).

  45. See [D&amp;C 64:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.23?lang=eng#22); [D&amp;C 85:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/85.3?lang=eng#2).

  46. See also [Ps. 100:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/100.5?lang=eng#4); [Ps. 117:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/117.2?lang=eng#1).

  47. See also [D&amp;C 126:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/126.3?lang=eng#2).

