# Preparation for the Second Coming

In modern revelation we have the promise that if we are prepared we need not
fear (see [D&amp;C 38:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/38.30?lang=eng#29)). I was introduced to that principle 60 years
ago this summer when I became a Boy Scout and learned the Scout motto: "Be
prepared." Today I have felt prompted to speak of the importance of
preparation for a future event of supreme importance to each of us--the Second
Coming of the Lord.

The scriptures are rich in references to the Second Coming, an event eagerly
awaited by the righteous and dreaded or denied by the wicked. The faithful of
all ages have pondered the sequence and meaning of the many events prophesied
to precede and follow this hinge point of history.

Four matters are indisputable to Latter-day Saints: (1) The Savior will return
to the earth in power and great glory to reign personally during a millennium
of righteousness and peace. (2) At the time of His coming there will be a
destruction of the wicked and a resurrection of the righteous. (3) No one
knows the time of His coming, but (4) the faithful are taught to study the
signs of it and to be prepared for it. I wish to speak about the fourth of
these great realities: the signs of the Second Coming and what we should do to
prepare for it.

## I.

The Lord has declared, "He that feareth me shall be looking forth for the
great day of the Lord to come, even for the signs of the coming of the Son of
Man," signs that will be shown "in the heavens above, and in the earth
beneath" ([D&amp;C 45:39-40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/45.39-40?lang=eng#38)).

The Savior taught this in the parable of the fig tree whose tender new
branches give a sign of the coming of summer. "So likewise," when the elect
shall see the signs of His coming "they shall know that he is near, even at
the doors" ([JS--M
1:38-39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-m/1.38-39?lang=eng#37); see
also [Matt.
24:32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.32-33?lang=eng#31);
[D&amp;C 45:37-38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/45.37-38?lang=eng#36)).

Biblical and modern prophecies give many signs of the Second Coming. These
include:

  1. The fulness of the gospel restored and preached in all the world for a witness to all nations.

  2. False Christs and false prophets, deceiving many.

  3. Wars and rumors of wars, with nation rising against nation.

  4. Earthquakes in divers places.

  5. Famine and pestilence.

  6. An overflowing scourge, a desolating sickness covering the land.

  7. Iniquity abounding.

  8. The whole earth in commotion.

  9. Men's hearts failing them.

(See [Matt.
24:5-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.5-15?lang=eng#4); [JS--M
1:22,
28-32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-m/1.22%2C28-32?lang=eng#21);
[D&amp;C 45:26-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/45.26-33?lang=eng#25).)

In another revelation the Lord declares that some of these signs are His voice
calling His people to repentance:

"Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made
you. ...

"How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the
ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings,
and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice
of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and
pestilences of every kind, ... and would have saved you with an everlasting
salvation, but ye would not!" ([D&amp;C 43:23,
25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/43.23%2C25?lang=eng#22)).

These signs of the Second Coming are all around us and seem to be increasing
in frequency and intensity. For example, the list of major earthquakes in _The
World Almanac and Book of Facts, 2004_ shows twice as many earthquakes in the
decades of the 1980s and 1990s as in the two preceding decades (pp. 189-90).
It also shows further sharp increases in the first several years of this
century. The list of notable floods and tidal waves and the list of
hurricanes, typhoons, and blizzards worldwide show similar increases in recent
years (pp. 188-89). Increases by comparison with 50 years ago can be dismissed
as changes in reporting criteria, but the accelerating pattern of natural
disasters in the last few decades is ominous.

## II.

Another sign of the times is the gathering of the faithful (see [D&amp;C
133:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.4?lang=eng#3)). In
the early years of this last dispensation, a gathering to Zion involved
various locations in the United States: to Kirtland, to Missouri, to Nauvoo,
and to the tops of the mountains. Always these were gatherings to prospective
temples. With the creation of stakes and the construction of temples in most
nations with sizeable populations of the faithful, the current commandment is
not to gather to one place but to gather in stakes in our own homelands. There
the faithful can enjoy the full blessings of eternity in a house of the Lord.
There, in their own homelands, they can obey the Lord's command to enlarge the
borders of His people and strengthen her stakes (see [D&amp;C
101:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.21?lang=eng#20);
[D&amp;C 133:9, 14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/133.9%2C14?lang=eng#8)). In this way, the stakes of Zion are "for
a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be
poured out without mixture upon the whole earth" ([D&amp;C
115:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/115.6?lang=eng#5)).

## III.

While we are powerless to alter the fact of the Second Coming and unable to
know its exact time, we can accelerate our own preparation and try to
influence the preparation of those around us.

A parable that contains an important and challenging teaching on this subject
is the parable of the ten virgins. Of this parable, the Lord said, "And at
that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which
I spake concerning the ten virgins" ([D&amp;C
45:56](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.56?lang=eng#55)).

Given in the 25th chapter of Matthew, this parable contrasts the circumstances
of the five foolish and the five wise virgins. All ten were invited to the
wedding feast, but only half of them were prepared with oil in their lamps
when the bridegroom came. The five who were prepared went into the marriage
feast, and the door was shut. The five who had delayed their preparations came
late. The door had been closed, and the Lord denied them entrance, saying, "I
know you not" ([Matt.
25:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.12?lang=eng#11)). "Watch
therefore," the Savior concluded, "for ye know neither the day nor the hour
wherein the Son of man cometh" ([Matt.
25:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.13?lang=eng#12)).

The arithmetic of this parable is chilling. The ten virgins obviously
represent members of Christ's Church, for all were invited to the wedding
feast and all knew what was required to be admitted when the bridegroom came.
But only half were ready when he came.

Modern revelation contains this teaching, spoken by the Lord to the early
leaders of the Church:

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people.

"For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes. ...

"And ... the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings,
and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving
themselves beyond their bounds.

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail
them; for fear shall come upon all people.

"And angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice,
sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of
the earth; for the judgment of our God is come. Behold, and lo, the Bridegroom
cometh; go ye out to meet him" ([D&amp;C
88:88-92](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.88-92?lang=eng#87)).

## IV.

Brothers and sisters, as the Book of Mormon teaches, "this life is the time
for men to prepare to meet God; ... the day of this life is the day for men to
perform their labors" ([Alma
34:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.32?lang=eng#31)). Are we
preparing?

In His preface to our compilation of modern revelation the Lord declares,
"Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh"
([D&amp;C 1:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.12?lang=eng#11)).

The Lord also warned: "Yea, let the cry go forth among all people: Awake and
arise and go forth to meet the Bridegroom; behold and lo, the Bridegroom
cometh; go ye out to meet him. Prepare yourselves for the great day of the
Lord" ([D&amp;C 133:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/133.10?lang=eng#9); see also [D&amp;C
34:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/34.6?lang=eng#5)).

Always we are cautioned that we cannot know the day or the hour of His coming.
In the 24th chapter of Matthew Jesus taught:

"Watch therefore; for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.

"But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the
thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house
to be broken up" ([Matt.
24:42-43](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.42-43?lang=eng#41)). "But
would have been ready" ([JS--M
1:47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-m/1.47?lang=eng#46)).

"Therefore be ye also ready: for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of
man cometh" ([Matt.
24:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.44?lang=eng#43); see also
[D&amp;C 51:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/51.20?lang=eng#19)).

What if the day of His coming were tomorrow? If we knew that we would meet the
Lord tomorrow--through our premature death or through His unexpected coming--
what would we do today? What confessions would we make? What practices would
we discontinue? What accounts would we settle? What forgivenesses would we
extend? What testimonies would we bear?

If we would do those things then, why not now? Why not seek peace while peace
can be obtained? If our lamps of preparation are drawn down, let us start
immediately to replenish them.

We need to make both temporal and spiritual preparation for the events
prophesied at the time of the Second Coming. And the preparation most likely
to be neglected is the one less visible and more difficult--the spiritual. A
72-hour kit of temporal supplies may prove valuable for earthly challenges,
but, as the foolish virgins learned to their sorrow, a 24-hour kit of
spiritual preparation is of greater and more enduring value.

## V.

We are living in the prophesied time "when peace shall be taken from the
earth" ([D&amp;C 1:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.35?lang=eng#34)), when "all things shall be in commotion" and
"men's hearts shall fail them" ([D&amp;C 88:91](https://www.lds.org/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/88.91?lang=eng#90)). There are many temporal causes of
commotion, including wars and natural disasters, but an even greater cause of
current "commotion" is spiritual.

Viewing our surroundings through the lens of faith and with an eternal
perspective, we see all around us a fulfillment of the prophecy that "the
devil shall have power over his own dominion" ([D&amp;C
1:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.35?lang=eng#34)). Our
hymn describes "the foe in countless numbers, / Marshaled in the ranks of sin"
("Hope of Israel," _Hymns,_ no. 259), and so it is.

Evil that used to be localized and covered like a boil is now legalized and
paraded like a banner. The most fundamental roots and bulwarks of civilization
are questioned or attacked. Nations disavow their religious heritage. Marriage
and family responsibilities are discarded as impediments to personal
indulgence. The movies and magazines and television that shape our attitudes
are filled with stories or images that portray the children of God as
predatory beasts or, at best, as trivial creations pursuing little more than
personal pleasure. And too many of us accept this as entertainment.

The men and women who made epic sacrifices to combat evil regimes in the past
were shaped by values that are disappearing from our public teaching. The
good, the true, and the beautiful are being replaced by the no-good, the
"whatever," and the valueless fodder of personal whim. Not surprisingly, many
of our youth and adults are caught up in pornography, pagan piercing of body
parts, self-serving pleasure pursuits, dishonest behavior, revealing attire,
foul language, and degrading sexual indulgence.

An increasing number of opinion leaders and followers deny the existence of
the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and revere only the gods of secularism.
Many in positions of power and influence deny the right and wrong defined by
divine decree. Even among those who profess to believe in right and wrong,
there are "them that call evil good, and good evil" ([Isa.
5:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/5.20?lang=eng#19); [2 Ne.
15:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/15.20?lang=eng#19)). Many also
deny individual responsibility and practice dependence on others, seeking,
like the foolish virgins, to live on borrowed substance and borrowed light.

All of this is grievous in the sight of our Heavenly Father, who loves all of
His children and forbids every practice that keeps any from returning to His
presence.

What is the state of our personal preparation for eternal life? The people of
God have always been people of covenant. What is the measure of our compliance
with covenants, including the sacred promises we made in the waters of
baptism, in receiving the holy priesthood, and in the temples of God? Are we
promisers who do not fulfill and believers who do not perform?

Are we following the Lord's command, "Stand ye in holy places, and be not
moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold, it cometh quickly"?
([D&amp;C 87:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/87.8?lang=eng#7)). What are those "holy places"? Surely they
include the temple and its covenants faithfully kept. Surely they include a
home where children are treasured and parents are respected. Surely the holy
places include our posts of duty assigned by priesthood authority, including
missions and callings faithfully fulfilled in branches, wards, and stakes.

As the Savior taught in His prophecy of the Second Coming, blessed is the
"faithful and wise servant" who is attending to his duty when the Lord comes
(see [Matt.
24:45-46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.45-46?lang=eng#44)). As
the prophet Nephi taught of that day, "The righteous need not fear" ([1 Ne.
22:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/22.17?lang=eng#16); see also
[1 Ne. 14:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.14?lang=eng#13);
[D&amp;C 133:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/133.44?lang=eng#43)). And modern revelation promises that "the
Lord shall have power over his saints" ([D&amp;C
1:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.36?lang=eng#35)).

We are surrounded by challenges on all sides (see [2 Cor.
4:8-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-cor/4.8-9?lang=eng#7)). But with
faith in God, we trust the blessings He has promised those who keep His
commandments. We have faith in the future, and we are preparing for that
future. To borrow a metaphor from the familiar world of athletic competitions,
we do not know when this game will end, and we do not know the final score,
but we do know that when the game finally ends, our team wins. We will
continue to go forward "till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and
the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done" (_History of the Church,_
4:540).

"Wherefore," the Savior tells us, "be faithful, praying always, having your
lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the
coming of the Bridegroom--For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I
come quickly" ([D&amp;C 33:17-18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/33.17-18?lang=eng#16)).

I testify of Jesus Christ. I testify that He shall come, as He has promised.
And I pray that we will be prepared to meet Him, in the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

