# “I Will Remember Your Sins No More”

My message is about a father and a son. Alma, the father, was a prophet; his
son, Corianton, a missionary.

Two of Alma's sons--Shiblon and Corianton, the youngest--were on a mission to
the Zoramites. Alma was greatly disappointed at the failure of his son
Corianton to live the standards of a missionary. Corianton forsook his
ministry and went to the land of Siron after the harlot Isabel (see [Alma
39:3](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.3?lang=eng#2)).

"This was no excuse for thee, my son. Thou shouldst have tended to the
ministry wherewith thou wast entrusted" ([Alma
39:4](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.4?lang=eng#3)).

Alma told his son that the devil had led him away (see [Alma
39:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.11?lang=eng#10)). Unchastity is "most
abominable above all sins save it be the shedding of innocent blood or denying
the Holy Ghost" ([Alma 39:5](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.5?lang=eng#4)).

"I would to God that ye had not been guilty of so great a crime." He then
said: "I would not dwell upon your crimes, to harrow up your soul, if it were
not for your good.

"But behold, ye cannot hide your crimes from God" ([Alma
39:7-8](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.7-8?lang=eng#6)).

He sternly commanded his son to accept the counsel of his older brothers (see
[Alma 39:10](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.10?lang=eng#9)).

Alma told him that his iniquity was great because it turned away
investigators: "When they saw your conduct they would not believe in my words.

"And now the Spirit of the Lord doth say unto me: Command thy children to do
good, lest they lead away the hearts of many people to destruction; therefore
I command you, my son, in the fear of God, that ye refrain from your
iniquities" ([Alma 39:11-12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.11-12?lang=eng#10)).

After this severe rebuke, Alma the loving father became Alma the teacher. He
knew that "the preaching of the word had a great tendency to lead the people
to do that which was just--yea, it had had more powerful effect upon the minds
of the people than the sword, or anything else" ([Alma
31:5](/scriptures/bofm/alma/31.5?lang=eng#4)). So Alma taught Corianton.

He spoke first of Christ: "My son, I would say somewhat unto you concerning
the coming of Christ. Behold, I say unto you, that it is he that surely shall
come to take away the sins of the world; yea, he cometh to declare glad
tidings of salvation unto his people" ([Alma
39:15](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.15?lang=eng#14)).

Corianton asked how they should know about the coming of Christ so far in
advance.

Alma replied, "Is not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will
be at the time of his coming?" ([Alma
39:17](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.17?lang=eng#16)).

Corianton was "worried concerning the resurrection of the dead" ([Alma
40:1](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.1?lang=eng#0)).

Alma had inquired of God concerning the Resurrection and told Corianton of the
First Resurrection and of other resurrections. "There is a time appointed that
all shall come forth from the dead" ([Alma
40:4](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.4?lang=eng#3)).

He had inquired as to "what becometh of the souls of men from this time of
death to the time appointed for the resurrection" ([Alma
40:7](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.7?lang=eng#6)).

He then told Corianton, "All men, whether they be good or evil, are taken home
to that God who gave them life" ([Alma
40:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.11?lang=eng#10)). The "righteous are received
into a state of happiness" ([Alma
40:12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.12?lang=eng#11)), and the evil are "led
captive by the will of the devil" ([Alma
40:13](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.13?lang=eng#12)). The righteous remain "in
paradise, until the time of their resurrection" ([Alma
40:14](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.14?lang=eng#13)).

"Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent,
that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit
which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that
same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world" ([Alma
34:34](/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.34?lang=eng#33)).

Alma told his son "that there is a space between death and the resurrection of
the body, and a state of the soul in happiness or in misery until the time
which is appointed of God that the dead shall come forth, and be reunited,
both soul and body, and be brought to stand before God, and be judged
according to their works" ([Alma
40:21](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.21?lang=eng#20)).

"The soul"--that is, the spirit--"shall be restored to the body, and the body
to the soul" ([Alma 40:23](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.23?lang=eng#22)). "This,"
he said, "is the restoration of which has been spoken by the mouths of the
prophets" ([Alma 40:24](/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.24?lang=eng#23)). Alma said
that "some have wrested the scriptures, and have gone far astray because of
this thing" ([Alma 41:1](/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.1?lang=eng#0)).

Alma then said: "And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more which doth
worry your mind, which ye cannot understand--which is concerning the justice
of God in the punishment of the sinner; for ye do try to suppose that it is
injustice that the sinner should be consigned to a state of misery.

"Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee" ([Alma
42:1-2](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.1-2?lang=eng#0)).

He told Corianton about the Garden of Eden and the Fall of Adam and Eve: "And
now, ye see by this that our first parents were cut off both temporally and
spiritually from the presence of the Lord; and thus we see they became
subjects to follow after their own will" ([Alma
42:7](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.7?lang=eng#6)).

"It was appointed unto man to die" ([Alma
42:6](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.6?lang=eng#5)).

He then explained why death is absolutely necessary: "If it were not for the
plan of redemption, (laying it aside) as soon as they were dead their souls
were miserable, being cut off from the presence of the Lord" ([Alma
42:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.11?lang=eng#10)).

Alma taught Corianton about justice and mercy: "According to justice, the plan
of redemption could not be brought about, only on conditions of repentance of
men" ([Alma 42:13](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.13?lang=eng#12)).

He explained that "the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an
atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the
world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice,
that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also" ([Alma
42:15](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.15?lang=eng#14)).

He taught Corianton about the unwavering standard of eternal law (see [Alma
42:17-25](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.17-25?lang=eng#16)).

He very bluntly explained why punishment was necessary: "Now, repentance could
not come unto men except there were a punishment, which also was eternal as
the life of the soul should be, affixed opposite to the plan of happiness,
which was as eternal also as the life of the soul" ([Alma
42:16](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.16?lang=eng#15)).

Alma knew personally the pain of punishment and the joy of repentance. He
himself had once greatly disappointed his own father, Corianton's grandfather.
He rebelled and went about "seeking to destroy the church" ([Alma
36:6](/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.6?lang=eng#5)). He was struck down by an angel,
not because he deserved it but because of the prayers of his father and others
(see [Mosiah 27:14](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/27.14?lang=eng#13)).

Alma felt the agony and guilt and said: "As I was thus racked with torment,
while I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered
also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of
one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world.

"Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O
Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in the gall of bitterness,
and am encircled about by the everlasting chains of death.

"And now, behold, when I thought this, I could remember my pains no more; yea,
I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no more.

"And oh, what joy, and what marvelous light I did behold; yea, my soul was
filled with joy as exceeding as was my pain!

"Yea, I say unto you, my son, that there could be nothing so exquisite and so
bitter as were my pains. Yea, and again I say unto you, my son, that on the
other hand, there can be nothing so exquisite and sweet as was my joy. ...

"Yea, and from that time even until now, I have labored without ceasing, that
I might bring souls unto repentance; that I might bring them to taste of the
exceeding joy of which I did taste; that they might also be born of God, and
be filled with the Holy Ghost" ([Alma 36:17-21,
24](/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.17-21,24?lang=eng#16)).

Alma asked Corianton, "Do ye suppose that mercy can rob justice?" ([Alma
42:25](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.25?lang=eng#24)). He explained that because of
the Atonement of Christ, both could be satisfied by eternal law.

"Moved upon by the Holy Ghost" ([D&amp;C 121:43](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.43?lang=eng#42); see also [Alma
39:12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.12?lang=eng#11)), he had rebuked Corianton
with sharpness. Then, after plainly, patiently teaching these fundamental
principles of the gospel, there came the abundance of love.

The Prophet Joseph Smith was taught through revelation that "no power or
influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by
persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love
unfeigned;

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without
hypocrisy, and without guile--

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then
showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast
reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death"
([D&amp;C 121:41-44](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.41-44?lang=eng#40)).

Alma said: "O my son, I desire that ye should deny the justice of God no more.
Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point because of your sins, by
denying the justice of God; but do you let the justice of God, and his mercy,
and his long-suffering have full sway in your heart; and let it bring you down
to the dust in humility" ([Alma
42:30](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.30?lang=eng#29)).

Corianton's grandfather, also named Alma, was among the priests who had served
the wicked King Noah. He heard Abinadi the prophet testify of Christ, and he
was converted. Condemned to death, he fled the evil court to teach of Christ.
(See [Mosiah 17:1-4](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/17.1-4?lang=eng#0).)

Now Alma, in turn, was the father pleading with his son Corianton to repent.

After sternly rebuking his son and patiently teaching the doctrine of the
gospel, Alma the loving father said, "And now, my son, I desire that ye should
let these things trouble you no more, and only let your sins trouble you, with
that trouble which shall bring you down unto repentance" ([Alma
42:29](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.29?lang=eng#28)).

In agony and shame, Corianton was brought "down to the dust in humility"
([Alma 42:30](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.30?lang=eng#29)).

Alma, who was Corianton's father and also his priesthood leader, was now
satisfied with Corianton's repentance. He lifted the terrible burden of guilt
his son carried and sent him back to the mission field: "And now, O my son, ye
are called of God to preach the word unto this people. ... Go thy way, declare
the word with truth and soberness. ... And may God grant unto you even according
to my words" ([Alma 42:31](/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.31?lang=eng#30)).

Corianton joined his brothers, Helaman and Shiblon, who were among the
priesthood leaders. Twenty years later in the land northward, he was still
faithfully laboring in the gospel. (See [Alma
49:30](/scriptures/bofm/alma/49.30?lang=eng#29); [Alma
63:10](/scriptures/bofm/alma/63.10?lang=eng#9).)

It is a wicked, wicked world in which we live and in which our children must
find their way. Challenges of pornography, gender confusion, immorality, child
abuse, drug addiction, and all the rest are everywhere. There is no way to
escape from their influence.

Some are led by curiosity into temptation, then into experimentation, and some
become trapped in addiction. They lose hope. The adversary harvests his crop
and binds them down.

Satan is the deceiver, the destroyer, but his is a temporary victory.

The angels of the devil convince some that they are born to a life from which
they cannot escape and are compelled to live in sin. The most wicked of lies
is that they cannot change and repent and that they will not be forgiven. That
cannot be true. They have forgotten the Atonement of Christ.

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he
suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him"
([D&amp;C 18:11](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.11?lang=eng#10)).

Christ is the Creator, the Healer. What He made, He can fix. The gospel of
Jesus Christ is the gospel of repentance and forgiveness (see [2 Ne.
1:13](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.13?lang=eng#12); [2 Ne.
9:45](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.45?lang=eng#44); [Jacob
3:11](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/3.11?lang=eng#10); [Alma
26:13-14](/scriptures/bofm/alma/26.13-14?lang=eng#12); [Moro.
7:17-19](/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.17-19?lang=eng#16)).

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God" ([D&amp;C
18:10](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.10?lang=eng#9)).

The account of this loving father and a wayward son, drawn from the Book of
Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ, is a type, a pattern, an example.

Each of us has a loving Father in Heaven. Through the Father's redeeming plan,
those who may stumble and fall "are not cast off forever" (Book of Mormon).

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth!" ([D&amp;C
18:13](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.13?lang=eng#12)).

"The Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance;
nevertheless" ([D&amp;C 1:31-32](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.31-32?lang=eng#30)), the Lord said, "he who has repented of his
sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more" ([D&amp;C
58:42](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/58.42?lang=eng#41)).

Could there be any more sweeter or more consoling words, more filled with
hope, than those words from the scriptures? "I, the Lord, remember [their
sins] no more" ([D&amp;C 58:42](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/58.42?lang=eng#41)). That is the testimony of the Book of Mormon,
and that is my testimony to you, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

