# The Pattern of Our Parentage

It is the Sabbath day, and outside is such a glorious day that all nature
seems to bespeak the works of God. I can't refrain from saying with the poet:

_O suns and skies and clouds of June,_

_And flowers of June together,_

_Ye cannot rival for one hour_

_October's bright blue weather._

I desire to share a few thoughts about a basic doctrine of the Church.

What I say is based on these convictions:

First: instruction vital to our salvation is not hidden in an obscure verse or
phrase in the scriptures. To the contrary, essential truths are repeated over
and over again.

Second: every verse, whether oft-quoted or obscure, must be measured against
other verses. There are complementary and tempering teachings in the
scriptures which bring a balanced knowledge of truth.

Next: there is a consistency in what the Lord says and what He does, that is
evident in all creation. Nature can teach valuable lessons about spiritual and
doctrinal matters. The Lord drew lessons from flowers and foxes, from seeds
and salt, and sparrows and sunsets.

Fourth: not all that God has said is in the Bible. Other scriptures--the Book
of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price--have
equal validity, and they sustain one another.

Fifth: while much must be taken on faith alone, there is individual revelation
through which we may know the truth. "There is a spirit in man: and the
inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." ([Job
32:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/32.8?lang=eng#7).) What may be
obscure in the scriptures can be made plain through the gift of the Holy
Ghost. We can have as full an understanding of spiritual things as we are
willing to earn.

And I add one more conviction: there is an adversary who has his own channels
of spiritual communication. He confuses the careless and prompts those who
serve him to devise deceptive, counterfeit doctrine, carefully contrived to
appear genuine.

I mention this because now, as always, there are self-appointed spokesmen who
scoff at what we believe and misrepresent what we teach.

## Go to His Friends

As a young seminary teacher, I learned a valuable lesson from our principal,
Able S. Rich. He told me, "If you really want to know what a man is, and what
he believes, do not go to his enemies. Go to the man himself or to his
friends. He does not confide the thoughts of his heart to his enemies. His
friends know him best; they know his strengths and his weaknesses. They will
represent him fairly. His enemies will _mis_represent him."

The doctrine I wish to discuss concerns the nature of man and of God.

## The Question

There is a question in both the Old and the New Testaments: "What is man, that
thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?" ([Ps.
8:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/8.4?lang=eng#3); see also [Heb.
2:5-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/2.5-7?lang=eng#4).)

The answer is taught most simply in the song we sang together at the
intermission of the meeting:

_I am a child of God,_

_And He has sent me here,_

_Has given me an earthly home_

_With parents kind and dear. ..._

_I am a child of God,_

_Rich blessings are in store;_

_If I but learn to do his will_

_I'll live with him once more._

## Children of God

Those lyrics teach a basic doctrine of the Church. We _are_ the children of
God. That doctrine is not hidden away in an obscure verse. It is taught over
and over again in scripture. These clear examples are from the Bible:

"All of you are children of the most High." ([Ps.
82:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/82.6?lang=eng#5).)

And: "We are the offspring of God." ([Acts
17:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/17.29?lang=eng#28).)

Doctrinal truths are interrelated. There is an old saying that if you pick up
one end of a stick, you pick up the other end as well.

If you concede that we are His children, you must allow that God is our
Father.

## God, Our Father

That, too, is repeated over and over again in the scriptures. There are so
many references that I could not even begin to read them to you.

But I make this point: Christ did not speak only of _the_ Father, or _my_
Father; He spoke of _your_ Father, and _our_ Father. He even put them together
in one sentence, saying, "_Your_ Father, and _your_ God, and _my_ God."
([D&amp;C 88:75](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.75?lang=eng#74); italics added.) God is addressed universally
in the Christian world as Father. Were we not commanded to pray "Our Father
which art in heaven"? ([Matt.
6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/6.9?lang=eng#8).)

You may respond, "Every Christian knows that." Perhaps every Christian does,
but so-called Christians, with the help of clergymen, belittle in most
unchristian ways our teaching that we are the literal sons and daughters of
God.

Other ideals flow from that great truth. Once you know that, you know that all
men are _brothers._ That realization changes you. Thereafter you cannot
willingly injure another. You could not transgress against them in any way.

## Self-respect

That simple, profound doctrine is worth knowing for another reason as well. It
brings a feeling of self-worth, dignity, self-respect. Then self-pity and
depression fade away. We then can yield to the discipline of a loving Father
and accept even the very hard lessons of life.

Christ taught us to be "perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is
perfect" ([Matt.
5:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.48?lang=eng#47)), to take on
His attributes, to follow the pattern of our parentage.

A little girl taught me a profound lesson on this subject. Surely you are not
above learning from little children. Much of what I know that really matters I
have learned from being a father.

## The Chicks

Some years ago I returned home to find our little children were waiting in the
driveway. They had discovered some newly hatched chicks under the manger in
the barn. When they reached for them, a protective hen rebuffed them. So they
came for reinforcements.

I soon gathered a handful of little chicks for them to see and touch.

As our little girl held one of them, I said in a teasing way, "That will make
a nice watchdog when it grows up, won't it?" She looked at me quizzically, as
if I didn't know much.

So I changed my approach: "It won't be a watchdog, will it?" She shook her
head, "No, Daddy." Then I added, "It will be a nice riding horse."

She wrinkled up her nose and gave me that "Oh, Dad!" look. For even a four-
year-old knows that a chick will not be a dog, nor a horse, nor even a turkey.
It will be a chicken. It will follow the pattern of its parentage. She knew
that without having had a course in genetics, without a lesson or a lecture.

## After Their Own Kind

No lesson is more manifest in nature than that all living things do as the
Lord commanded in the Creation. They reproduce "after their own kind." (See
[Moses 2:12,
24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/2.12%2C24?lang=eng#11).) They
follow the pattern of their parentage. Everyone knows that; every four-year-
old knows that! A bird will not become an animal nor a fish. A mammal will not
beget reptiles, nor "do men gather ... figs of thistles." ([Matt.
7:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.16?lang=eng#15).)

In the countless billions of opportunities in the reproduction of living
things, one kind does not beget another. If a species ever does cross, the
offspring cannot reproduce. The pattern for all life is the pattern of the
parentage.

This is demonstrated in so many obvious ways, even an ordinary mind should
understand it. Surely no one with reverence for God could believe that His
children evolved from slime or from reptiles. (Although one can easily imagine
that those who accept the theory of evolution don't show much enthusiasm for
genealogical research!) The theory of evolution, and it is a theory, will have
an entirely different dimension when the workings of God in creation are fully
revealed.

Since _every living thing_ follows the pattern of its parentage, are we to
suppose that God had some other strange pattern in mind for _His_ offspring?
Surely we, His children, are not, in the language of science, a different
species than He is?

## Like God

What is in error, then, when we use the term _Godhood_ to describe the
ultimate destiny of mankind? We may now be young in our progression--juvenile,
even infantile, compared with Him. Nevertheless, in the eternities to come, if
we are worthy, we may be like unto Him, enter His presence, "see as [we] are
seen, and know as [we] are known," and receive a "fulness." ([D&amp;C
76:94](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.94?lang=eng#93).)

This doctrine is not at variance with the scriptures. Nevertheless, it is easy
to understand why some Christians reject it, because it introduces the
possibility that man may achieve Godhood.

## One God

Their concern centers on certain verses of scripture, for there are many
references (at least twenty in the Bible alone) which speak of _one_ God. For
example, [Eph. 4:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/4.6?lang=eng#5):
There is "one God and Father of all."

But if you hold strictly to a too rigid interpretation of those verses, you
create serious theological problems for yourself.

## Plural Terms

There are many other verses of scripture, at least an equal number in the
Bible, that speak in plural terms of "lords" and "gods." The first chapter of
Genesis states:

"And God said, Let _us_ make man in _our_ image, after _our_ likeness." ([Gen.
1:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/1.26?lang=eng#25); italics added.)

Such references are found from Genesis to Revelation. (See [Rev.
1:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/1.6?lang=eng#5).)

The strongest one was given by Christ Himself when He quoted that very clear
verse from the Eighty-second Psalm:

"Is it not written in your law, _I said, Ye are gods?_ [See [Ps.
82:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/82.6?lang=eng#5).]

"If he called them _gods,_ unto whom the word of God came, _and the scripture
cannot be broken;_

"Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou
blasphemest; because I said, I am the _Son_ of God?" ([John
10:34-36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/10.34-36?lang=eng#33);
italics added.)

The acceptance of this truth does not mean accepting the multiple gods of
mythology nor the polytheism of the pagans, which was so roundly condemned by
Isaiah and the other prophets.

There is _one_ God, the Father of all. This we accept as fundamental doctrine.

There is only _one_ Redeemer, Mediator, Savior. This we know.

There is _one_ Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, who completes the Godhead.

I have emphasized the word _one,_ in each sentence, but I have used it three
times. Three is plural.

Paul used the plural _many_ and the singular _one_ in the same verse:

"For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, (as
there be gods many, and lords many,)

"But to us there is but one God, the Father." ([1 Cor.
8:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/8.5-6?lang=eng#4).)

Anyone who believes and teaches of God the Father, and accepts the divinity of
Christ, and of the Holy Ghost, teaches a plurality of Gods.

## Relying on Reason

When the early Apostles were gone, those who assumed the leadership of the
Church forsook revelation and relied on reason. The idea of three separate
Gods offended them, for it appeared to contravene those scriptures which refer
to one God.

To reconcile that problem, they took verses here and there and ignored all
else that bears on the subject. They tried to stir the three _ones_ together
into some mysterious kind of a composite _one._ They came up with creeds which
cannot be squared with the scriptures. And they were left with a philosophy
which opposes all we know of creation, of the laws of nature. And that,
interestingly enough, defies the very reason upon which they came to depend.

The Apostle Paul understood this doctrine and wrote to the Philippians:

"Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:

"Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God."
([Philip. 2:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/2.5-6?lang=eng#4).)

Lorenzo Snow, a modern Apostle, wrote a poem to his ancient counterpart Paul,
from which I quote only one verse:

_A Son of God, like God to be,_

_Would not be robbing Deity,_

_And he who has this hope within,_

_Will purify himself from sin._

## Purity

What could inspire one to purity and worthiness more than to possess a
spiritual confirmation that we are the children of God? What could inspire a
more lofty regard for oneself, or engender more love for mankind?

This thought does not fill me with arrogance. It fills me with overwhelming
humility. Nor does it sponsor any inclination to worship oneself or any man.

The doctrine we teach has no provision for lying or stealing, for pornography,
immoralities, for child abuse, for abortion, or murder. We are bound by the
laws of His church, _as sons and daughters of God,_ to avoid all of these and
every other unholy or impure practice.

We did not invent this doctrine. Much of it was preserved in the Bible as it
was revealed to prophets in ancient times. And as they foretold, further light
and knowledge was revealed.

With the restoration of the fulness of the gospel came the Book of Mormon,
Another Testament of Jesus Christ. Other revelations were given and continue
to be given, and verses which seemed to oppose one another have harmony.

The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "It is the first principle of the Gospel to
know for a certainty the Character of God." (_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith,_ sel. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co. 1938, p.
345.)

And that knowledge is given us.

The Father _is_ the one true God. _This_ thing is certain: no one will ever
ascend above Him; no one will ever replace Him. Nor will anything ever change
the relationship that we, His literal offspring, have with Him. He is Eloheim,
the Father. He is God. Of Him there _is_ only one. We revere our Father and
our God; we _worship_ Him.

There is only one Christ, one Redeemer. We accept the divinity of the Only
Begotten Son of God in the flesh. We accept the promise that we may become
joint heirs with Him. Paul wrote to the Romans:

"The spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children
of God:

"And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ"
([Rom. 8:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/8.16-17?lang=eng#15).)

There are those who mock our beliefs in the most uncharitable ways. And we
will bear what they do with long-suffering, for it does not change truth. And
in their own way they move our work along a little faster. We will send our
missionaries abroad to teach that we are the literal sons and daughters of
God.

We will strive with every exertion to teach what Christ taught, to live as He
lived, to endure as He endured.

We began with this question: "What is man that thou art mindful of him?"
Christ, our Redeemer, our Elder Brother, asked, "What manner of men ought ye
to be?" And then He answered, "Verily I say unto you, even as I am." ([3 Ne.
27:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26).)

I bear solemn witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Only Begotten of the
Father in the flesh; that He is our Redeemer, our Savior; that God is our
Father. This we know through the gift of the Holy Ghost. And I humbly but
resolutely affirm that we will not, we cannot, stray from this doctrine. On
this fundamental truth we will _never_ yield! In the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

