# The Gathering of Scattered Israel

My beloved brothers and sisters, thank you for your faith, your devotion, and
your love. We share an enormous responsibility to be who the Lord wants us to
be and to do what He wants us to do. We are part of a great movement--the
gathering of scattered Israel. I speak of this doctrine today because of its
unique importance in God's eternal plan.

## Abrahamic Covenant

Anciently, the Lord blessed Father Abraham with a promise to make his
posterity a chosen people. [1]  References to this covenant occur throughout
the scriptures. Included were promises that the Son of God would come through
Abraham's lineage, that certain lands would be inherited, that nations and
kindreds of the earth would be blessed through his seed, and more. [2]  While
some aspects of that covenant have already been fulfilled, the Book of Mormon
teaches that this Abrahamic covenant will be fulfilled only in these latter
days! [3]  It also emphasizes that we are among the covenant people of the
Lord. [4]  Ours is the privilege to participate personally in the fulfillment
of these promises. What an exciting time to live!

## Israel Became Scattered

As descendants of Abraham, the tribes of ancient Israel had access to
priesthood authority and blessings of the gospel, but eventually the people
rebelled. They killed the prophets and were punished by the Lord. Ten tribes
were carried captive into Assyria. From there they became lost to the records
of mankind. (Obviously, the ten tribes are not lost to the Lord.) Two
remaining tribes continued a short time and then, because of their rebellion,
were taken captive into Babylon. [5]  When they returned, they were favored of
the Lord, but again they honored Him not. They rejected and vilified Him. A
loving but grieving Father vowed, "I will scatter you among the heathen," [6]
and that He did--into all nations.

## Israel to Be Gathered

God's promise for the gathering of scattered Israel was equally emphatic. [7]
Isaiah, for example, foresaw that in the latter days the Lord would send
"swift messengers" to these people who were so "scattered and peeled." [8]

This promise of the gathering, woven all through the fabric of the scriptures,
will be fulfilled just as surely as were the prophecies of the scattering of
Israel. [9]

## The Church of Jesus Christ in the Meridian of Time and the Apostasy

Prior to His Crucifixion, the Lord Jesus Christ had established His Church. It
included apostles, prophets, seventies, teachers, and so forth. [10]  And the
Master sent His disciples into the world to preach His gospel. [11]

After a time the Church as established by the Lord fell into spiritual decay.
His teachings were altered; His ordinances were changed. The Great Apostasy
came as had been foretold by Paul, who knew that the Lord would not come again
"except there come a falling away first." [12]

This Great Apostasy followed the pattern that had ended each previous
dispensation. The very first was in the time of Adam. Then came dispensations
of Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and others. Each prophet had a divine
commission to teach of the divinity and the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ.
In each age these teachings were meant to help the people. But their
disobedience resulted in apostasy. Thus, all previous dispensations were
limited in time and location. They were limited in time because each ended in
apostasy. They were limited in location to a relatively small segment of
planet earth.

## The Restoration of All Things

Thus a complete restoration was required. God the Father and Jesus Christ
called upon the Prophet Joseph Smith to be the prophet of this dispensation.
All divine powers of previous dispensations were to be restored through him.
[13]  This dispensation of the fulness of times would not be limited in time
or in location. It would not end in apostasy, and it would fill the world.
[14]

## The Gathering of Israel--an Integral Part of the Restoration of All Things

As prophesied by Peter and Paul, _all_ things were to be restored in this
dispensation. Therefore, there must come, as part of that restoration, the
long-awaited gathering of scattered Israel. [15]  It is a necessary prelude to
the Second Coming of the Lord. [16]

This doctrine of the gathering is one of the important teachings of The Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Lord has declared: "I give unto you
a sign ... that I shall gather in, from their long dispersion, my people, O
house of Israel, and shall establish again among them my Zion." [17]  The
coming forth of the Book of Mormon is a sign to the entire world that the Lord
has commenced to gather Israel and fulfill covenants He made to Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob. [18]  We not only teach this doctrine, but we participate in
it. We do so as we help to gather the elect of the Lord on both sides of the
veil.

The Book of Mormon is central to this work. It declares the doctrine of the
gathering. [19]  It causes people to learn about Jesus Christ, to believe His
gospel, and to join His Church. In fact, if there were no Book of Mormon, the
promised gathering of Israel would not occur. [20]

To us the honored name of _Abraham_ is important. It is mentioned in more
verses of scriptures of the Restoration than in all verses of the Bible. [21]
Abraham is linked to all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. [22]  The Lord reaffirmed the Abrahamic covenant in our day through
the Prophet Joseph Smith. [23]  In the temple we receive our ultimate
blessings, as the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. [24]

## The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times

This dispensation of the fulness of times was foreseen by God as the time to
gather, both in heaven and on earth. Peter knew that after a period of
apostasy, a restoration would come. He, who had been with the Lord on the
Mount of Transfiguration, declared:

"Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out,
when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; ...

"Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things,
which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world
began." [25]

In modern times the Apostles Peter, James, and John were sent by the Lord with
"the keys of [His] kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last
times; and for the fulness of times," in which He would "gather together in
one all things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth." [26]

In the year 1830 the Prophet Joseph Smith learned of a heavenly messenger
named Elias, who possessed keys to bring to pass "the restoration of all
things." [27]

Six years later the Kirtland Temple was dedicated. After the Lord accepted
that holy house, heavenly messengers came with priesthood keys. Moses appeared
[28]  "and committed ... the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts
of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north.

"After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of
Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be
blessed." [29]

Then Elijah the prophet came and proclaimed, "Behold, the time has fully come,
which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi--testifying that he [Elijah]
should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come--to turn
the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers,
lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse." [30]

These events occurred on April 3, 1836, [31]  and thus fulfilled Malachi's
prophecy. [32]  Sacred keys of this dispensation were restored. [33]

## Gathering of Souls on the Other Side of the Veil

Mercifully, the invitation to "come unto Christ" [34]  can also be extended to
those who died without a knowledge of the gospel. [35]  Part of their
preparation requires earthly efforts of others. We gather pedigree charts,
create family group sheets, and do temple work vicariously to gather
individuals unto the Lord and into their families. [36]

## To Participate in the Gathering: A Commitment by Covenant

Here on earth, missionary work is crucial to the gathering of Israel. The
gospel was to be taken first to the "lost sheep of the house of Israel." [37]
Consequently, servants of the Lord have gone forth proclaiming the
Restoration. In many nations our missionaries have searched for those of
scattered Israel; they have hunted for them "out of the holes of the rocks";
and they have fished for them as in ancient days. [38]

The choice to come unto Christ is not a matter of physical location; it is a
matter of individual commitment. People can be "brought to the knowledge of
the Lord" [39]  without leaving their homelands. True, in the early days of
the Church, conversion often meant emigration as well. But now the gathering
takes place in each nation. The Lord has decreed the establishment of Zion
[40]  in each realm where He has given His Saints their birth and nationality.
Scripture foretells that the people "shall be gathered home to the lands of
their inheritance, and shall be established in all their lands of promise."
[41]  "Every nation is the gathering place for its own people." [42]  The
place of gathering for Brazilian Saints is in Brazil; the place of gathering
for Nigerian Saints is in Nigeria; the place of gathering for Korean Saints is
in Korea; and so forth. Zion is "the pure in heart." [43]  Zion is wherever
righteous Saints are. Publications, communications, and congregations are now
such that nearly all members have access to the doctrines, keys, ordinances,
and blessings of the gospel, regardless of their location.

Spiritual security will always depend upon _how_ one lives, not _where_ one
lives. Saints in every land have equal claim upon the blessings of the Lord.

This work of Almighty God is true. He lives. Jesus is the Christ. This is His
Church, restored to accomplish its divine destiny, including the promised
gathering of Israel. President Gordon B. Hinckley is God's prophet today. I so
testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.  See [Genesis 12:1-2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/12.1-2?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C 132:29-32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.29-32?lang=eng#28); [Abraham 2:6-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.6-11?lang=eng#5).

  2.  See [Genesis 26:1-4, 24, 28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/26.1-4%2C24%2C28?lang=eng#0); [35:9-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/35.9-13?lang=eng#8); [48:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/48.3-4?lang=eng#2); [John 8:33, 39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/8.33%2C39?lang=eng#32); [Acts 3:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/3.25?lang=eng#24); [1 Nephi 17:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.40?lang=eng#39); [2 Nephi 29:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/29.14?lang=eng#13); [Jacob 5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/5.title?lang=eng); [Ether 13:7-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/13.7-8?lang=eng#6); [D&amp;C 52:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/52.2?lang=eng#1).

  3.  See, for example, [1 Nephi 15:12-18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.12-18?lang=eng#11).

  4.  See [1 Nephi 14:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.14?lang=eng#13); [15:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.14?lang=eng#13); [2 Nephi 30:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/30.2?lang=eng#1); [Mosiah 24:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/24.13?lang=eng#12); [3 Nephi 29:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/29.3?lang=eng#2); [Mormon 8:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/8.15?lang=eng#14); [D&amp;C 133:26-34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.26-34?lang=eng#25).

  5.  The tribe of Levi provided priests among the people and was not to be numbered as a tribe or to receive tribal inheritance. Two sons of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, were given land inheritances. They were numbered among the tribes, in the stead of their father, Joseph. The number of twelve tribes was thus maintained.

  6.   [Leviticus 26:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/26.33?lang=eng#32); see also [Jeremiah 9:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/9.16?lang=eng#15).

  7.  See [Genesis 22:16-18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/22.16-18?lang=eng#15); [3 Nephi 20-22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/20.title?lang=eng); [Abraham 2:10-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.10-11?lang=eng#9).

  8.   [Isaiah 18:2, 7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/18.2%2C7?lang=eng#1).

  9.  See [Leviticus 26:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/26.44?lang=eng#43); [Deuteronomy 4:27-31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/4.27-31?lang=eng#26); [28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/28.title?lang=eng); [29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/29.title?lang=eng); [30:2-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/30.2-5?lang=eng#1); [Nehemiah 1:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/neh/1.9?lang=eng#8); [Isaiah 11:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/11.11-12?lang=eng#10); [Jeremiah 31:7-8, 10-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/31.7-8%2C10-12?lang=eng#6); [Ezekiel 37:21-22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezek/37.21-22?lang=eng#20); [Amos 9:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/amos/9.14-15?lang=eng#13); [Matthew 24:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.31?lang=eng#30); [Jacob 6:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/6.2?lang=eng#1); see also Russell M. Nelson, "The Exodus Repeated," _Liahona,_ Apr. 2002, 30-39; _Ensign_, July 1999, 6-13.

  10.  See [Luke 10:1, 17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/10.1%2C17?lang=eng#0); [Ephesians 4:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/4.11?lang=eng#10); [Articles of Faith 1:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.6?lang=eng#5).

  11.  See [Matthew 28:19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/28.19-20?lang=eng#18); [Mark 16:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/16.15?lang=eng#14).

  12.   [2 Thessalonians 2:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-thes/2.3?lang=eng#2). "Falling away" is translated from the Greek _apostasia_, meaning "apostasy."

  13.  See [D&amp;C 128:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.18?lang=eng#17); [132:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.45?lang=eng#44).

  14.  See [Isaiah 27:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/27.6?lang=eng#5).

  15.  See [1 Nephi 15:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.18?lang=eng#17); see also [Book of Mormon title page](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/bofm/bofm?lang=eng&span=bofm-title.title), paragraph 2.

  16.  See [D&amp;C 133:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.17?lang=eng#16).

  17.   [3 Nephi 21:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/21.1?lang=eng#0).

  18.  See [Genesis 12:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/12.2-3?lang=eng#1); [26:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/26.3-4?lang=eng#2); [35:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/35.11-12?lang=eng#10); and chapter headings for [3 Nephi 21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/21.title?lang=eng); [29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/29.title?lang=eng).

  19.  Doctrines relating to the scattering and gathering of the house of Israel are among the earliest lessons taught in the Book of Mormon: "After the house of Israel should be scattered they should be gathered together again; ... the natural branches of the olive-tree, or the remnants of the house of Israel, should be grafted in, or come to the knowledge of the true Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer" ([1 Nephi 10:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.14?lang=eng#13)).

  20.  See Bruce R. McConkie,_ A New Witness for the Articles of Faith_ (1985), 554.

  21.  Abraham is mentioned in 506 verses of scripture: 216 are in the Bible; 290 are in the scriptures of the Restoration.

  22.  The covenant may also be received by adoption (see [Matthew 3:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/3.9?lang=eng#8); [Luke 3:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/3.8?lang=eng#7); [Galatians 3:26-29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/3.26-29?lang=eng#25); [4:5-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/4.5-7?lang=eng#4); [Abraham 2:9-10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.9-10?lang=eng#8)).

  23.  See [D&amp;C 124:58](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.58?lang=eng#57); [132:31-32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.31-32?lang=eng#30).

  24.  See [D&amp;C 84:33-40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.33-40?lang=eng#32); [132:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.19?lang=eng#18); [Abraham 2:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.11?lang=eng#10).

  25.   [Acts 3:19, 21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/3.19%2C21?lang=eng#18).

  26.   [D&amp;C 27:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.13?lang=eng#12). Paul also prophesied of our day "that in the dispensation of the fulness of times [the Lord] might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth" ([Ephesians 1:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/1.10?lang=eng#9)).

  27.   [D&amp;C 27:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.6?lang=eng#5).

  28.  It is appropriate that Moses, who first led God's children to the land of their inheritance, would be the one to commit the keys of the gathering of Israel to the restored Church. Moses had come to Peter, James, and John on the Mount of Transfiguration and there had bestowed upon them the same priesthood keys in their day. At the conference of the Church in April 1840, the Prophet Joseph Smith appointed Orson Hyde to go to Jerusalem and there dedicate the land for the return of the Jews and scattered Israel. [44]  On Sunday, October 24, 1841, Elder Hyde knelt on the Mount of Olives and dedicated that land for the gathering of the Jews and of Israel to their ancient inheritance.

  29.   [D&amp;C 110:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.11-12?lang=eng#10).

  30.   [D&amp;C 110:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.14-15?lang=eng#13).

  31.  Significant is the fact that Moses, Elias, and Elijah came on Easter Sunday, at the beginning of Passover.

  32.  See [Malachi 4:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/mal/4.5-6?lang=eng#4).

  33.  See [D&amp;C 110:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.16?lang=eng#15).

  34.   [Jacob 1:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/1.7?lang=eng#6); [Omni 1:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/omni/1.26?lang=eng#25); [Moroni 10:30, 32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.30%2C32?lang=eng#29); [D&amp;C 20:59](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.59?lang=eng#58).

  35.  See [D&amp;C 137:6-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/137.6-8?lang=eng#5).

  36.  See [1 Corinthians 15:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.29?lang=eng#28); [1 Peter 4:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/4.6?lang=eng#5).

  37.   [Matthew 10:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/10.6?lang=eng#5); [15:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/15.24?lang=eng#23).

  38.  See [Jeremiah 16:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/16.16?lang=eng#15).

  39.   [3 Nephi 20:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/20.13?lang=eng#12).

  40.  See [D&amp;C 6:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.6?lang=eng#5); [11:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/11.6?lang=eng#5); [12:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/12.6?lang=eng#5); [14:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/14.6?lang=eng#5).

  41.   [2 Nephi 9:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.2?lang=eng#1).

  42.  Bruce R. McConkie, in Conference Report, Mexico City Mexico Area Conference 1972, 45.

  43.   [D&amp;C 97:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/97.21?lang=eng#20).

  44.  See [2 Nephi 9:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.2?lang=eng#1); [10:7-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/10.7-9?lang=eng#6); [25:16-17, 20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.16-17%2C20?lang=eng#15); [3 Nephi 21:22-28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/21.22-28?lang=eng#21); [D&amp;C 29:7-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/29.7-8?lang=eng#6).

