# Always Remember Him

Dear brothers and sisters, when I served in Asia, people sometimes asked,
"Elder Gong, how many people live in the Asia Area of the Church?"

I said, "Half the world's population--3.6 billion people."

Someone asked, "Is it hard to remember all their names?"

Remembering--and forgetting--are part of everyday life. For example, once,
after looking everywhere for her new mobile phone, my wife finally decided to
call it from another phone. When she heard her phone ring, my wife thought,
"Who could be calling me? I haven't given that number to anyone!"

Remembering--and forgetting--are also part of our eternal journey. Time,
agency, and memory help us learn, grow, and increase in faith.

In the words of a favorite hymn:

We'll sing all hail to Jesus' name,

And praise and honor give. ...

Ye Saints, partake and testify

Ye do remember him.[1]

Each week, in partaking of the sacrament, we covenant to always remember Him.
Drawing on the nearly 400 scripture references to the word _remember,_ here
are six ways we can always remember Him.

First, we can always remember Him by having confidence in His covenants,
promises, and assurances.

The Lord remembers His everlasting covenants--from Adam's time to the day
Adam's posterity "shall embrace the truth, and look upward, then shall Zion
look downward, and all the heavens shall shake with gladness, and the earth
shall tremble with joy."[2]

The Lord remembers His promises, including promises to gather scattered Israel
through the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ and promises
given to every member and missionary who remembers the worth of souls.[3]

The Lord remembers and assures nations and peoples. In these days of motion
and commotion,[4] "some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will
remember the name of the Lord our God,"[5] who guides "the future as he has
the past."[6] In "perilous times,"[7] we "remember that it is not the work of
God that is frustrated, but the work of men."[8]

Second, we can always remember Him by gratefully acknowledging His hand
throughout our lives.

The Lord's hand in our lives is often clearest in hindsight. As Christian
philosopher SÃ¸ren Kierkegaard put it: "Life must be understood backward. But ...
it must be _lived forward_."[9]

My dear mother recently celebrated her 90th birthday. She gratefully testified
of God's blessing at each major juncture in her life. Family histories, family
traditions, and family ties help us savor remembrance of things past while
providing future patterns and hope. Priesthood lines of authority and
patriarchal blessings witness of God's hand across generations.

Have you ever thought of yourself as your own living book of remembrance--
reflecting what and how you choose to remember?

For example, when I was younger, I really wanted to play school basketball. I
practiced and practiced. One day the coach pointed to our 6-foot-4-inch (1.93
m) all-state center and our 6-foot-2-inch (1.88 m) all-star forward and said
to me, "I can put you on the team, but you'll likely never play." I remember
how kindly he then encouraged, "Why not try out for soccer? You'd be good." My
family cheered when I scored my first goal.

We can remember those who give us a chance, and a second chance, with honesty,
kindness, patience, and encouragement. And we can become someone others
remember when they most needed help. Gratefully remembering the assistance of
others and the Spirit's guiding influence is a way we remember Him. It is a
way we count our many blessings and see what God hath done.[10]

Third, we can always remember Him by trusting when the Lord assures us, "He
who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember
them no more."[11]

When we fully repent, including by confessing and forsaking our sins, we ask
with Enos, as our guilt is swept away, "Lord, how is it done?" and hear the
answer "Because of thy faith in Christ"[12] and His invitation to "put me in
remembrance."[13]

Once we repent and priesthood leaders declare us worthy, we need not continue
to confess and confess these past sins. To be worthy does not mean to be
perfect. Heavenly Father's plan of happiness invites us to be humbly at peace
on our life's journey to someday become perfected in Christ,[14] not
constantly worried, frustrated, or unhappy in our imperfections today.
Remember, He knows all the things we don't want anyone else to know about us--
and loves us still.

Sometimes life tests our trust in Christ's mercy, justice, and judgment and in
His liberating invitation to allow His Atonement to heal us as we forgive
others and ourselves.

A young woman in another country applied to work as a journalist, but the
official who assigned jobs was merciless. He said to her, "With my signature,
I guarantee you will not become a journalist but will dig sewers." She was the
only woman digging sewers in a gang of men.

Years later this woman became an official. One day a man came in needing her
signature for a job.

She asked, "Do you remember me?" He did not.

She said, "You do not remember me, but I remember you. With your signature,
you guaranteed I never became a journalist. With your signature, you sent me
to dig sewers, the only woman in a gang of men."

She told me, "I feel I should treat that man better than he treated me--but I
do not have that strength." Sometimes that strength is not within us, but it
can be found in remembering the Atonement of our Savior, Jesus Christ.

When trust is betrayed, dreams shattered, hearts broken and broken again, when
we want justice and need mercy, when our fists clench and our tears flow, when
we need to know what to hold onto and what to let go of, we can always
remember Him. Life is not as cruel as it can sometimes seem. His infinite
compassion can help us find our way, truth, and life.[15]

When we remember His words and example, we will not give or take offense.

My friend's father worked as a mechanic. His honest labor showed even in his
carefully washed hands. One day someone at a temple told my friend's father he
should clean his hands before serving there. Instead of being offended, this
good man began to scrub the family dishes by hand with extra soapy water
before attending the temple. He exemplifies those who "ascend into the hill of
the Lord" and "stand in his holy place" with the cleanest of hands and the
purest of hearts.[16]

If we have unkind feelings, grudges, or resentments or if we have cause to ask
forgiveness of others, now is the time to do so.

Fourth, He invites us to remember that He is always welcoming us home.

We learn by asking and searching. But please do not cease exploration until
you arrive--in the words of T. S. Eliot--"where [you] started and know the
place for the first time."[17] When you are ready, please open your heart to
the Book of Mormon, again, for the first time. Please pray with real intent,
again, for the first time.

Trust that early or faint memory. Let it enlarge your faith. With God, there
is no point of no return.

Prophets ancient and modern implore us not to let human foibles, faults, or
weaknesses--others' or our own--cause us to miss the truths, covenants, and
redeeming power in His restored gospel.[18] This is especially important in a
church where we each grow through our imperfect participation. The Prophet
Joseph said, "I never told you I was perfect; but there is no error in the
revelations which I have taught."[19]

Fifth, we can always remember Him on the Sabbath through the sacrament. At the
end of His mortal ministry and the beginning of His resurrected ministry--both
times--our Savior took bread and wine and asked that we remember His body and
blood,[20] "for as oft as ye do this ye will remember this hour that I was
with you."[21]

In the ordinance of the sacrament, we witness unto God the Father that we are
willing to take upon us the name of His Son and always remember Him and keep
His commandments, which He has given us, that we may always have His Spirit to
be with us.[22]

As Amulek teaches, we remember Him when we pray over our fields, our flocks,
and our households and when we remember the needy, the naked, the sick and
afflicted.[23]

Finally, sixth, our Savior invites us to always remember Him as He always
remembers us.

In the New World, our resurrected Savior invited those present to come, one by
one, to thrust their hands into His side and to feel the prints of the nails
in His hands and in His feet.[24]

The scriptures describe resurrection as "every limb and joint shall be
restored to ... their proper and perfect frame," and "even a hair of the head
shall not be lost."[25] That being so, please consider how it is that our
Savior's perfect, resurrected body still bears the wounds in His side and the
nail prints in His hands and feet.[26]

At times in history, mortal men have been executed by crucifixion. But only
our Savior, Jesus Christ, embraces us still carrying the marks of His pure
love. Only He fulfills the prophecy of being lifted up upon the cross that He
might draw each of us, by name, to Him.[27]

Our Savior declares:

"Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee.

"Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands."[28]

He testifies: "I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was crucified. I am
the Son of God."[29]

I humbly testify and pray that we will always remember Him--in all times, all
things, and all places we may be in.[30] In the sacred and holy name of Jesus
Christ, amen.

## References

  1. "We'll Sing All Hail to Jesus' Name," _Hymns,_ no. 182.

  2. Joseph Smith Translation, Genesis 9:22 (in the Bible appendix).

  3. See [Doctrine and Covenants 18:10-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.10-16?lang=eng#9).

  4. See [Doctrine and Covenants 45:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.26?lang=eng#25); [88:91](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.91?lang=eng#90).

  5. [Psalm 20:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/20.7?lang=eng#6).

  6. "Be Still, My Soul," _Hymns,_ no. 124.

  7. [2 Timothy 3:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/3.1?lang=eng#0); see also [verses 2-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/3.2-7?lang=eng#1).

  8. [Doctrine and Covenants 3:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/3.3?lang=eng#2).

  9. _Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 2, Journals EE-KK,_ Bruce H. Kirmmse and others, ed. (2008), 2:179; emphasis in original.

  10. See "Count Your Blessings," _Hymns,_ no. 241.

  11. [Doctrine and Covenants 58:42](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/58.42?lang=eng#41); see also [Isaiah 43:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/43.25?lang=eng#24).

  12. [Enos 1:7, 8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/enos/1.7,8?lang=eng#6).

  13. [Isaiah 43:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/43.26?lang=eng#25).

  14. See [Moroni 10:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.32?lang=eng#31).

  15. See [John 14:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.6?lang=eng#5).

  16. [Psalm 24:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/24.3?lang=eng#2); see also [verse 4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/24.4?lang=eng#3); experience used with permission.

  17. T. S. Eliot, "Little Gidding," in _Four Quartets_ (1943), section 5, lines 241-42.

  18. See, for example, [Ether 12:23-28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.23-28?lang=eng#22); Dieter F. Uchtdorf, "[Come, Join with Us](https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2013/10/come-join-with-us?lang=eng)," _Ensign _or_ Liahona,_ Nov. 2013, 21-24.

  19. _Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith_ (2007), 522. He continues here, "Must I, then, be thrown away as a thing of naught?"

  20. See [Doctrine and Covenants 27:2-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.2-4?lang=eng#1) for modern revelation on the use of water instead of wine.

  21. Joseph Smith Translation, Mark 14:21 (in the Bible appendix).

  22. See [Moroni 4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/4.3?lang=eng#2); [5:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/5.2?lang=eng#1); [Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.77,79?lang=eng#76).

  23. See [Alma 34:20-21, 28-29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.20-21,28-29?lang=eng#19). In modern revelation, the Lord likewise enjoins us, "Remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted" ([Doctrine and Covenants 52:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/52.40?lang=eng#39)).

  24. See [3 Nephi 11:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.14-15?lang=eng#13).

  25. [Alma 40:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.23?lang=eng#22).

  26. See [Doctrine and Covenants 6:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.37?lang=eng#36).

  27. See [3 Nephi 27:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.14?lang=eng#13); see also, for example, [John 12:32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/12.32-33?lang=eng#31); [1 Nephi 11:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.33?lang=eng#32); [Mosiah 23:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/23.22?lang=eng#21); [Alma 13:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.29?lang=eng#28); [33:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/33.19?lang=eng#18); [Helaman 8:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/8.14-15?lang=eng#13).

  28. [Isaiah 49:15-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/49.15, 16?#14); see also [1 Nephi 21:15-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/21.15, 16?#14).

  29. [Doctrine and Covenants 45:52](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.52?lang=eng#51).

  30. See [Mosiah 18:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.9?lang=eng#8).

