# Redemption

There are various names by which reference is made to the Lord Jesus Christ.
These names give us insight into different aspects of the Lord's atoning
mission. Take, for example, the title "Savior." We all have a sense of what it
means to be saved because each of us has been saved at some time from
something. As children, my sister and I were playing in a river in a small
boat when we unwisely left the safe area of play and found ourselves being
propelled by the current to unknown perils downstream. In response to our
cries, our father ran to the rescue, saving us from the dangers of the river.
When I think of saving, I think of that experience.

The title "Redeemer" provides similar insights. "To redeem" is to buy or to
buy back. As a legal matter, property is redeemed by paying off the mortgages
or other liens on it. In Old Testament times, the law of Moses provided
different ways that servants and property could be freed, or redeemed, by the
payment of money (see [Leviticus 25:29-32,
48-55](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/25.29-32%2C48-55?lang=eng#28)).

A prominent scriptural use of the word _redeem_ concerns the delivery of the
children of Israel out of their bondage in Egypt. After that deliverance,
Moses told them, "Because the Lord loved you, ... hath [He] brought you out with
a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen, from the hand of
Pharaoh king of Egypt" ([Deuteronomy
7:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/7.8?lang=eng#7)).

The theme of Jehovah redeeming the people of Israel from bondage is repeated
many times in the scriptures. Often this is done to remind the people of the
Lord's goodness in delivering the children of Israel from the Egyptians. But
it is also done to teach them that there would be another, more important,
redemption for Israel. Lehi taught, "And the Messiah cometh in the fulness of
time, that he may redeem the children of men from the fall" ([2 Nephi
2:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.26?lang=eng#25)).

The Psalmist wrote, "But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave"
([Psalm 49:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/49.15?lang=eng#14)).

The Lord declared through Isaiah, "I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy
transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed
thee" ([Isaiah
44:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/44.22?lang=eng#21)).

The redemption referred to in these three scriptures, of course, is the
Atonement of Jesus Christ. This is the "plenteous redemption" provided by our
loving God ([Psalm
130:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/130.7?lang=eng#6)). Unlike the
redemptions under the law of Moses or in modern legal arrangements, this
redemption does not come by "corruptible things, as silver and gold" ([1 Peter
1:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/1.18?lang=eng#17)). "In [Christ]
we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to
the riches of his grace" ([Ephesians
1:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/1.7?lang=eng#6)). President John
Taylor taught that because of the Redeemer's sacrifice, "the debt is paid, the
redemption made, the covenant fulfilled, justice satisfied, the will of God
done, and all power is ... given into the hands of the Son of God" (_Teachings
of Presidents of the Church: John Taylor_ [2001], 44).

The effects of this redemption include the overcoming of physical death for
all of God's children. That is, temporal death is overcome, and all will be
resurrected. Another aspect of this redemption by Christ is the victory over
spiritual death. Through His suffering and death, Christ paid for the sins of
all mankind on condition of individual repentance.

Thus, if we repent, we can be forgiven of our sins, the price having been paid
by our Redeemer. This is good news for all of us, "for all have sinned, and
come short of the glory of God" ([Romans
3:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/3.23?lang=eng#22)). Those who have
strayed significantly from the paths of righteousness desperately need this
redemption, and if they fully repent, it is theirs to claim. But those who
have worked hard to live good lives also desperately need this redemption, for
none can get to the presence of the Father without Christ's help. Thus, this
loving redemption allows the laws of justice and mercy to be satisfied in the
lives of all who repent and follow Christ.

_How great, how glorious, how complete,_

_Redemption's grand design,_

_Where justice, love, and mercy meet_

_In harmony divine!_

("How Great the Wisdom and the Love," _Hymns,_ no. 195)

President Boyd K. Packer taught, "There is a Redeemer, a Mediator, who stands
both willing and able to appease the demands of justice and extend mercy to
those who are penitent" ("The Mediator," _Ensign,_ May 1977, 56).

The scriptures, literature, and the experiences of life are filled with
stories of redemption. Through Christ, people can and do change their lives
and obtain redemption. I love stories of redemption.

I have a friend who did not follow the teachings of the Church in his youth.
When he was a young adult, he realized what he had been missing by not living
the gospel. He repented, changed his life, and devoted himself to righteous
living. One day, years after our youthful association, I met him in the
temple. The gospel light shone in his eyes, and I sensed that he was a devoted
member of the Church trying to fully live the gospel. His is a story of
redemption.

I once interviewed a woman for baptism who had been guilty of a very grievous
sin. During the interview I asked if she understood that she could never
repeat that sin. With deep emotion in her eyes and in her voice, she said, "Oh
President, I could never do that sin again. That is the reason I want to be
baptized--to cleanse me from the effects of that terrible sin." Hers is a
story of redemption.

As I have visited stake conferences and other meetings in recent years, I have
carried President Thomas S. Monson's call to rescue the less-active members of
the Church. At one stake conference I told a story of a less-active member who
returned to full activity after his bishop and other leaders visited him in
his home, told him he was needed, and called him to serve in the ward. The man
in the story not only accepted the call but also changed his life and habits
and became fully active in the Church.

A friend of mine was in the congregation to which I told that story. His
countenance visibly changed as the story was told. He sent me an e-mail the
next day telling me that his emotional reaction to the story was because his
father-in-law's story of returning to activity in the Church was very similar
to the one that I had told. He told me that as a result of a similar visit by
a bishop and an invitation to serve in the Church, his father-in-law
reevaluated his life and his testimony, made major changes in his life, and
accepted the call. That reactivated man now has 88 descendants who are active
members of the Church.

At a meeting a few days later, I told both stories. The next day I received
another e-mail which began, "That's my father's story too." That e-mail, from
a stake president, told how his father was invited to serve in the Church even
though he had not been active and had some habits that needed changing. He
accepted the invitation and, in the process, repented, eventually served as a
stake president and then a mission president, and laid the foundation for his
posterity to be faithful members of the Church.

A few weeks later I told all three stories in another stake conference. After
the meeting a man came to me and told me that that was _not_ his father's
story. It was _his_ story. He told me of the events that led him to repent and
come back to full involvement in the Church. And so it went. As I carried the
call to rescue the less active, I saw and heard story after story of people
who responded to invitations to come back and change their lives. I heard
story after story of redemption.

Although we can never repay the Redeemer what He paid on our behalf, the plan
of redemption calls for our best efforts to fully repent and do the will of
God. The Apostle Orson F. Whitney wrote:

_Savior, Redeemer of my soul,_

_Whose mighty hand hath made me whole,_

_Whose wondrous pow'r hath raised me up_

_And filled with sweet my bitter cup!_

_What tongue my gratitude can tell,_

_O gracious God of Israel._

_Never can I repay thee, Lord,_

_But I can love thee. Thy pure word,_

_Hath it not been my one delight,_

_My joy by day, my dream by night?_

_Then let my lips proclaim it still,_

_And all my life reflect thy will._

("Savior, Redeemer of My Soul," _Hymns,_ no. 112)

I bear my testimony of the power of Christ's Atonement. When we repent and
come to Him, we can receive all of the blessings of eternal life. That we may
do so, receiving our own story of redemption, is my prayer in the name of
Jesus Christ, amen.

