# I Testify

My beloved brethren and sisters, my heart is full and my feelings tender as we
conclude this great general conference of the Church.

We have been richly blessed as we have listened to the counsel and testimonies
of those who have spoken to us.

As a special witness of Jesus Christ, and as His humble servant, it is now my
obligation and privilege, as the Spirit dictates, to bear pure testimony and
witness to that which I know to be true. (See [Alma
4:19](/scriptures/bofm/alma/4.19?lang=eng#18).) This I will do.

I testify that we are the spirit offspring of a loving God, our Heavenly
Father (see [Acts 17:29](/scriptures/nt/acts/17.29?lang=eng#28); [1 Ne.
17:36](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.36?lang=eng#35)). He has a great plan of
salvation whereby His children might be perfected as He is and might have a
fulness of joy as He enjoys. (See [1 Ne.
10:18](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.18?lang=eng#17); [2 Ne.
2:25](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.25?lang=eng#24); [Alma
24:14](/scriptures/bofm/alma/24.14?lang=eng#13); [Alma
34:9](/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.9?lang=eng#8); [3 Ne.
12:48](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.48?lang=eng#47); [3 Ne.
28:10](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/28.10?lang=eng#9).)

I testify that in our premortal state our Elder Brother in the spirit, even
Jesus Christ, became our foreordained Savior in the Father's plan of
salvation. (See [Mosiah 4:6-7](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.6-7?lang=eng#5);
[Alma 34:9](/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.9?lang=eng#8).) He is the captain of our
salvation and the only means through whom we can return to our Father in
Heaven to gain that fulness of joy. (See [Heb.
2:10](/scriptures/nt/heb/2.10?lang=eng#9); [Mosiah
3:17](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.17?lang=eng#16); [Alma
38:9](/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.9?lang=eng#8).)

I testify that Lucifer was also in the council of heaven. He sought to destroy
the agency of man. He rebelled. (See [Moses
4:3](/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.3?lang=eng#2).) There was a war in heaven, and a
third of the hosts were cast to the earth and denied a body. (See [Rev.
12:7-9](/scriptures/nt/rev/12.7-9?lang=eng#6); [D&amp;C 29:36-37](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/29.36-37?lang=eng#35).) Lucifer is the enemy of all
righteousness and seeks the misery of all mankind. (See [2 Ne. 2:18,
27](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.18,27?lang=eng#17); [Mosiah
4:14](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.14?lang=eng#13).)

I testify that all those who come into mortality accepted our Father's plan.
(See [Abr. 3:26](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.26?lang=eng#25).) Having proved
faithful in their first estate in heaven, they are now subject to the test of
mortality in this second estate. That test entails doing all things whatsoever
the Lord requires. (See [Abr. 3:25](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.25?lang=eng#24).)
Those who prove faithful in this second estate will have glory added upon
their heads forever and ever. (See [Abr.
3:26](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.26?lang=eng#25).)

I testify that God reveals His will to all men through the Light of Christ.
(See [Moro. 7:16](/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.16?lang=eng#15); [D&amp;C
93:2](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.2?lang=eng#1); [John
1:9](/scriptures/nt/john/1.9?lang=eng#8).) They receive the additional light
of the gift of the Holy Ghost through the laying on of hands by God's
authorized servants following baptism. (See [A of F
1:4](/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.4?lang=eng#3); [D&amp;C 20:41](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.41?lang=eng#40).)

I testify that throughout the ages God has spoken to His children through His
prophets. (See [Amos 3:7](/scriptures/ot/amos/3.7?lang=eng#6); [Hel.
8:13-20](/scriptures/bofm/hel/8.13-20?lang=eng#12).) Only when His children
rejected the prophets were the prophets taken out of their midst, and then
tragedy followed. (See [1 Ne.
3:17-18](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/3.17-18?lang=eng#16); [1 Ne.
7:14](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/7.14?lang=eng#13); [Hel.
13:24-27](/scriptures/bofm/hel/13.24-27?lang=eng#23).)

I testify that Christ was born into mortality with Mary as His mother and our
Heavenly Father as His father. (See [1 Ne.
11:18-21](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.18-21?lang=eng#17); [Mosiah
3:8](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.8?lang=eng#7).) He lived a sinless life,
providing us a perfect example. (See [D&amp;C 45:4](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/45.4?lang=eng#3); [3 Ne.
12:48](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.48?lang=eng#47); [3 Ne.
27:27](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26).) He worked out the great
Atonement, which, through His grace, provides for every soul a resurrection
and, for the faithful, the means to become exalted in the celestial kingdom.
(See [A of F 1:3](/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.3?lang=eng#2); [2 Ne.
25:23](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.23?lang=eng#22); [Mosiah
4:6-7](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.6-7?lang=eng#5); [Alma
11:41-45](/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.41-45?lang=eng#40); [D&amp;C
76:50-70](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.50-70?lang=eng#49); [D&amp;C
132:19](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.19?lang=eng#18).)

I testify that during His mortal ministry Christ established His church on the
earth. (See [Matt. 16:18](/scriptures/nt/matt/16.18?lang=eng#17); [Acts
2:47](/scriptures/nt/acts/2.47?lang=eng#46); [3 Ne.
21:22](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/21.22?lang=eng#21).) He called and ordained men
to be Apostles and prophets with authority so that what they bound on earth
would be bound in heaven. (See [Matt.
16:19](/scriptures/nt/matt/16.19?lang=eng#18); [John
15:16](/scriptures/nt/john/15.16?lang=eng#15).) They received revelation,
which provided new scripture. (See [2 Pet.
1:20-21](/scriptures/nt/2-pet/1.20-21?lang=eng#19); [D&amp;C 68:4](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/68.4?lang=eng#3).)

I testify that a world so wicked that it killed the Son of God soon began
killing the Apostles and prophets and so plunged itself into a spiritual dark
age. (See [2 Thes. 2:2-7](/scriptures/nt/2-thes/2.2-7?lang=eng#1).) Scripture
ended, apostasy spread, and the church that Christ established during His
earthly ministry ceased to exist. (See [2 Ne.
27:4-5](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/27.4-5?lang=eng#3).)

I testify that God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to Joseph
Smith in the spring of 1820, thus bringing to an end the long night of
apostasy ([JS--H 1:15-20](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.15-20?lang=eng#14)). To
Joseph Smith appeared other beings, including John the Baptist and Peter,
James, and John, who ordained him with authority to act in the name of God
(see [JS--H 1:68-72](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.68-72?lang=eng#67); [D&amp;C
27:5-13](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.5-13?lang=eng#4)). The church and
kingdom of God was restored in these latter days, even The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, with all the gifts, rights, powers, doctrines,
officers, and blessings of the former-day Church. (See [D&amp;C
65](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/65?lang=eng); [D&amp;C 115:3-4](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/115.3-4?lang=eng#2).)

I testify that through the Book of Mormon God has provided for our day
tangible evidence that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith is His
prophet. (See [D&amp;C 20:8-33](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.8-33?lang=eng#7).) This other testament of Jesus Christ is a
scriptural account of the early inhabitants of America. It was translated by
Joseph Smith through the gift and power of God. (See [D&amp;C
135:3](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/135.3?lang=eng#2).) Those who will read and
ponder the Book of Mormon and ask our Eternal Father in the name of Christ if
it is true may know for themselves of its truthfulness through the power of
the Holy Ghost, provided they will ask with a sincere heart, with real intent,
having faith in Christ. (See [Moro.
10:3-5](/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.3-5?lang=eng#2).)

I testify that America is a choice land. (See [2 Ne.
1:5](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.5?lang=eng#4).) God raised up the founding
fathers of the United States of America and established the inspired
Constitution. (See [D&amp;C 101:77-80](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/101.77-80?lang=eng#76).) This was the required prologue for the
restoration of the gospel. (See [3 Ne.
21:4](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/21.4?lang=eng#3).) America will be a blessed land
unto the righteous forever and is the base from which God will continue to
direct the worldwide latter-day operations of His kingdom. (See [2 Ne.
1:7](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.7?lang=eng#6).)

I testify that there has been, and there is now, and there will be legal
successors to the Prophet Joseph Smith who hold the keys of the kingdom of God
on earth, even the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. (See [D&amp;C 21:1-7](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/21.1-7?lang=eng#0);
[D&amp;C 107:91-92](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.91-92?lang=eng#90);
[D&amp;C 112:15](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/112.15?lang=eng#14).) He receives
revelation from God to direct His kingdom. Associated with him are others who
are prophets, seers, and revelators, even those who make up the presiding
quorums of the Church, namely the First Presidency and the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles. (See [D&amp;C 112:30](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/112.30?lang=eng#29).)

I testify that wickedness is rapidly expanding in every segment of our
society. (See [D&amp;C 1:14-16](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.14-16?lang=eng#13); [D&amp;C 84:49-53](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/84.49-53?lang=eng#48).) It is more highly organized, more
cleverly disguised, and more powerfully promoted than ever before. Secret
combinations lusting for power, gain, and glory are flourishing. A secret
combination that seeks to overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and
countries is increasing its evil influence and control over America and the
entire world. (See [Ether
8:18-25](/scriptures/bofm/ether/8.18-25?lang=eng#17).)

I testify that the church and kingdom of God is increasing in strength. Its
numbers are growing, as is the faithfulness of its faithful members. It has
never been better organized or equipped to perform its divine mission.

I testify that as the forces of evil increase under Lucifer's leadership and
as the forces of good increase under the leadership of Jesus Christ, there
will be growing battles between the two until the final confrontation. As the
issues become clearer and more obvious, all mankind will eventually be
required to align themselves either for the kingdom of God or for the kingdom
of the devil. As these conflicts rage, either secretly or openly, the
righteous will be tested. God's wrath will soon shake the nations of the earth
and will be poured out on the wicked without measure. (See [JS--H
1:45](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.45?lang=eng#44); [D&amp;C 1:9](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.9?lang=eng#8).) But God will provide strength for the righteous
and the means of escape; and eventually and finally truth will triumph. (See
[1 Ne. 22:15-23](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/22.15-23?lang=eng#14).)

I testify that it is time for every man to set in order his own house both
temporally and spiritually. It is time for the unbeliever to learn for himself
that this work is true, that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
is the kingdom which Daniel prophesied God would set up in the latter days,
never to be destroyed, a stone that would eventually fill the whole earth and
stand forever. (See [Dan. 2:34-45](/scriptures/ot/dan/2.34-45?lang=eng#33);
[D&amp;C 65:2](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/65.2?lang=eng#1).) It is time for
us, as members of the Church, to walk in all the ways of the Lord, to use our
influence to make popular that which is sound and to make unpopular that which
is unsound. We have the scriptures, the prophets, and the gift of the Holy
Ghost. Now we need eyes that will see, ears that will hear, and hearts that
will hearken to God's direction.

I testify that not many years hence the earth will be cleansed. (See [D&amp;C
76:41](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.41?lang=eng#40).) Jesus the Christ will
come again, this time in power and great glory to vanquish His foes and to
rule and reign on the earth. (See [D&amp;C 43:26-33](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/43.26-33?lang=eng#25).) In due time all men will gain a
resurrection and then will face the Master in a final judgment. (See [2 Ne.
9:15, 41](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.15,41?lang=eng#14).) God will give rewards
to each according to the deeds done in the flesh. (See [Alma
5:15](/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.15?lang=eng#14).)

I testify to you that a fulness of joy can only come through the atonement of
Jesus Christ and by obedience to all of the laws and ordinances of the gospel,
which are found only in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. (See
[A of F 1:3](/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.3?lang=eng#2).)

To all these things I humbly testify and bear my solemn witness that they are
true, and I do so in the name of Him who is the head of this church, even
Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

