# “For Whatsoever a Man Soweth, That Shall He Also Reap”

"For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all
things and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves"
([D&amp;C 104:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/104.17?lang=eng#16)).

I marvel each year as I witness the system which the Lord has provided to
supply for the needs of His children here on the earth. Each spring I follow a
piece of string tied between two stakes to make a straight line, and with my
hoe in hand I proceed to drop two or three seeds into good, fertile soil. Each
fall I am overwhelmed with the bounteous harvest. Those few seeds have grown
into tall plants, and each seed for the most part has produced a full golden
ear containing more than a hundredfold of the original seed which was dropped
into the soil a few months earlier. Each season of harvest one must be
overwhelmed with humble gratitude for the blessings of the Lord to His
children.

The Savior must have appreciated this process, for He used the example of this
growth cycle many times as He taught in parables during His earthly ministry.
We find lesson after lesson in His teachings using examples from the Lord's
supply system. We find parables concerning the sower (see [Matt.
13:3-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/13.3-23?lang=eng#2)), the seed
growing by itself (see [Mark
4:26-29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/4.26-29?lang=eng#25)), the
tares (see [Matt.
13:24-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/13.24-30?lang=eng#23)), the
unfruitful fig tree (see [Luke
13:6-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/13.6-9?lang=eng#5)), the fig
tree's leaves (see [Matt.
24:32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.32-33?lang=eng#31)),
treasures hidden in a field (see [Matt.
13:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/13.44?lang=eng#43)), and many,
many others. Is it any wonder we found His disciples teaching after His
earthly ministry, "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man
soweth, that shall he also reap" ([Gal.
6:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/6.7?lang=eng#6)).

One must be impressed with the great message of the Lord's law of the harvest.
His system produces growth, multiplication, and abundant rewards. Surely as we
watch the blessings of this growth cycle each year, we would expect His
children to catch the vision of their mortal potential. He has entrusted to
many of His children during their earthly ministry the opportunity of caring
for His special creations--His sons and His daughters. It is surely the
greatest of all responsibilities which He has delegated to mankind.

I have spent some time in the last few months listening--listening to the
frustrations of parents, listening to the urgent appeals from youth, listening
to the small voice of a child. My ears have been filled with concerns; these
concerns were all centered upon what has happened to the basic, secure, fun-
loving, traditional family, which has been the foundation of civilization
beginning with father Adam and mother Eve. Suddenly we find great forces at
work to relegate it to a minority position. Recorded history has made it
abundantly clear what happens to mankind when the traditional family unit is
cast aside. The Book of Mormon gives us account after account of the results
of what occurs to civilizations who turn from the course designed for them by
the Lord.

In the book of Jacob we find the scriptures recording, "And now it came to
pass that the people of Nephi, under the reign of the second king, began to
grow hard in their hearts, and indulge themselves somewhat in wicked
practices" ([Jacob
1:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/1.15?lang=eng#14)). Jacob
warned the people to mend their ways and cautioned them about what would occur
if they did not return to the ways of the Lord.

First he cautioned them concerning their pride. Then he turned to a more
troublesome problem, saying,

"And now I make an end of speaking unto you concerning this pride. And were it
not that I must speak unto you concerning a grosser crime, my heart would
rejoice exceedingly because of you." ([Jacob
2:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.22?lang=eng#21).)

"Behold, ye have done greater iniquities than the Lamanites, our brethren. Ye
have broken the hearts of your tender wives, and lost the confidence of your
children, because of your bad examples before them; and the sobbings of their
hearts ascend up to God against you. And because of the strictness of the word
of God, which cometh down against you, many hearts died, pierced with deep
wounds." ([Jacob
2:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.35?lang=eng#34).)

Unless we would turn from the course too many are pursuing today, we too must
stand the same judgments of God.

Contemplating the words of the scriptures, I was suddenly startled with the
terrifying thought, "What if the clock were to be turned back on my life
fifteen years, and I found myself again with a couple of teenagers and a small
child living in the 1980 environment?" I found cold beads of perspiration
standing out on my forehead as I considered the challenge of maintaining a
traditional family during these troublesome years. It was then that I started
to think of what I would do differently than I did in that first experience if
I could repeat the process fifteen years later.

Four problem areas flashed through my mind which would require renewed
determination and effort:

  1. Family finances. To provide for a family would be much more difficult. Employment is not as secure. Change is occurring at an ever-increasing rate. It is much more of a problem to maintain our standard of living with inflation as it is today. Housing, utilities, food, clothing, and the gas-guzzling automobiles are all taking a larger share of the family income. The pressures on family finances would increase family tensions. How to cope with this new environment looms as a major challenge. But suddenly I was comforted by a voice that was heard to say:

  2. Family organization. I heard a young mother in a testimony meeting a few weeks ago bear witness to a new understanding of what the Lord had entrusted to her. She said how disappointed she had been with the change in the Sunday meeting program, which had taken her--a Primary worker--from the opportunity of attending Relief Society and Sunday School. She had almost determined to fall into inactivity rather than accept the change. One day while brooding over this situation, the light of inspiration touched her heart and she could see the vision of what was occurring in the Church. It was not the loss of attendance at Relief Society she was to be concerned with, but the new, glorious opportunities to have prime time on the Lord's day to be with her husband and children to fulfill the greatest responsibility the Lord has entrusted to her--the responsibility of teaching and training her own. Now after much prayer, study, and planning with her husband, Sunday has become the most special day in the week.

  3. Filling Church positions. I would prepare, study, train, meditate, and pray for more guidance to better fulfill the Church position to which I had been called. I would want my service to measure up to the standard the Lord expected of me. I would be certain I was so well prepared for each assignment given to me that my inefficiencies would not rob from me precious family time. I would understand more fully the Lord's system of sharing responsibilities with counselors, high councilors, quorum officers, home teachers, and fathers. I would understand more fully the concept that one man can never outperform the results of an effective team.

  4. Community involvement. I would have greater involvement in what was going on in the schools my children were attending and the community in which we lived. I would lend my support to the majority of my good neighbors to be certain that where I was living children could have the privilege of growing up in a clean, safe, wholesome, happy community. I would not allow small, misguided, self-benefiting groups to rob from us the blessings of such a family community experience.

I pray that our harvest will be blessed with the fulness the Lord has promised
to us because we have lived worthy of meriting His blessings. May our families
be the traditional type, where the leadership is provided by two worthy
parents who welcome children into their home to be loved, taught, and trained
in the ways prescribed by the Lord.

I declare unto you my witness that the Lord is strong and mighty and is the
King of Glory. He lives to lead and guide and bless us with His love.

May we be blessed with the faith to follow His way, which will lead us to life
eternal, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

