# “What Manner of Men Ought Ye to Be?”

I am delighted to be with you today and to greet this wonderful general
conference audience. In so doing, may I thank you for the prayers you offer in
behalf of the General Authorities, for our health and our travel and our
personal circumstances. We are blessed by these faithful prayers offered, and
we wish you to know of our gratitude.

One of the most important questions ever asked to mortal men was asked by the
Son of God himself, the Savior of the world. To a group of disciples in the
New World, a group anxious to be taught by him and even more anxious because
he would soon be leaving them, he asked, "What manner of men ought ye to be?"
Then in the same breath he gave this answer: "Even as I am" ([3 Ne.
27:27](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26)).

The world is full of people who are willing to tell us, "Do as I say." Surely
we have no lack of advice givers on about every subject. But we have so few
who are prepared to say, "Do as I do." And, of course, only One in human
history could rightfully and properly make that declaration. History provides
many examples of good men and women, but even the best of mortals are flawed
in some way or another. None could serve as a perfect model nor as an
infallible pattern to follow, however well-intentioned they might be.

Only Christ can be our ideal, our "bright and morning star" ([Rev.
22:16](/scriptures/nt/rev/22.16?lang=eng#15)). Only he can say without _any_
reservation, "Follow me; learn of me; do the things you have seen me do. Drink
of my water and eat of my bread. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am
the law and the light. Look unto me and ye shall live. Love one another as I
have loved you" (see [Matt. 11:29](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.29?lang=eng#28);
[Matt. 16:24](/scriptures/nt/matt/16.24?lang=eng#23); [John
4:13-14](/scriptures/nt/john/4.13-14?lang=eng#12); [John 6:35,
51](/scriptures/nt/john/6.35,51?lang=eng#34); [John
7:37](/scriptures/nt/john/7.37?lang=eng#36); [John
13:34](/scriptures/nt/john/13.34?lang=eng#33); [John
14:6](/scriptures/nt/john/14.6?lang=eng#5); [3 Ne.
15:9](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/15.9?lang=eng#8); [3 Ne.
27:21](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.21?lang=eng#20)).

My, what a clear and resonant call! What certainty and example in a day of
uncertainty and absence of example.

We all miss President Ezra Taft Benson today and wish that he could address
us. I wonder if I might pay a small tribute to him by quoting something he
said from this pulpit on the subject of Christ's marvelous example. He said
(and I add my own witness to its truth):

"Nearly two thousand years ago a perfect Man walked the earth--Jesus the
Christ. ... In His life, all the virtues were lived and kept in perfect balance;
He taught men truth--that they might be free; His example and precepts provide
the great standard--the only sure way--for all mankind" (_Teachings of Ezra
Taft Benson,_ Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1988, p. 8).

The great standard! The only sure way! The light and the life of the world!
How grateful we should be that God sent his Only Begotten Son to earth to do
at least two things that no other person could have done. The first task
Christ did as a perfect, sinless Son was to redeem all mankind from the Fall,
providing an atonement for Adam's sin and for our own sins if we will accept
and follow him. The second great thing he did was to set a perfect example of
right living, of kindness and mercy and compassion, in order that all of the
rest of mankind might know how to live, know how to improve, and know how to
become more godlike.

Let us follow the Son of God in all ways and in all walks of life. Let us make
him our exemplar and our guide. We should at every opportunity ask ourselves,
"What would Jesus do?" and then be more courageous to act upon the answer. We
must follow Christ, in the best sense of that word. We must be about his work
as he was about his Father's. We should try to be like him, even as the
Primary children sing, "Try, try, try" (_Children's Songbook,_ p. 55). To the
extent that our mortal powers permit, we should make every effort to become
like Christ--the one perfect and sinless example this world has ever seen.

His beloved disciple John often said of Christ, "We beheld his glory" ([John
1:14](/scriptures/nt/john/1.14?lang=eng#13)). They observed the Savior's
perfect life as he worked and taught and prayed. So, too, ought we to "behold
his glory" in every way we can.

We must know Christ better than we know him; we must remember him more often
than we remember him; we must serve him more valiantly than we serve him. Then
we will drink water springing up unto eternal life and will eat the bread of
life.

What manner of men and women ought we to be? Even as he is. In the name of
Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

