# Personal Preparation for Temple Blessings

Under President Gordon B. Hinckley's inspired direction, temples are now more
accessible than ever. Inscribed on each temple are the words "Holiness to the
Lord."[1] That statement designates both the temple and its purposes as holy.
Those who enter the temple are also to bear the attribute of holiness.[2] It
may be easier to ascribe holiness to a building than it is to a people. We can
acquire holiness only by enduring and persistent personal effort. Through the
ages, servants of the Lord have warned against unholiness. Jacob, brother of
Nephi, wrote: "I would speak unto you of holiness; but as ye are not holy, and
ye look upon me as a teacher, [I] must ... teach you the consequences of
sin."[3]

Now I feel that same sense of responsibility to teach. As temples are prepared
for our members, our members need to prepare for the temple.

## The Temple

The temple is the house of the Lord. The basis for every temple ordinance and
covenant--the heart of the plan of salvation--is the Atonement of Jesus
Christ. Every activity, every lesson, all we do in the Church, point to the
Lord and His holy house. Our efforts to proclaim the gospel, perfect the
Saints, and redeem the dead all lead to the temple. Each holy temple stands as
a symbol of our membership in the Church,[4] as a sign of our faith in life
after death, and as a sacred step toward eternal glory for us and our
families.

President Hinckley said that "these unique and wonderful buildings, and the
ordinances administered therein, represent the ultimate in our worship. These
ordinances become the most profound expressions of our theology."[5]

To enter the temple is a tremendous blessing. But first we must be worthy. We
should not be rushed. We cannot cut corners of preparation and risk the
breaking of covenants we were not prepared to make. That would be worse than
not making them at all.

## The Endowment

In the temple we receive an endowment, which is, literally speaking, a gift.
In receiving this gift, we should understand its significance and the
importance of keeping sacred covenants. Each temple ordinance "is not just a
ritual to go through, it is an act of solemn promising."[6]

The temple endowment was given by revelation. Thus, it is best understood by
revelation, prayerfully sought with a sincere heart.[7] President Brigham
Young said, "Your endowment is, to receive all those ordinances in the house
of the Lord, which are necessary for you, after you have departed this life,
to enable you to walk back to the presence of the Father, ... and gain your
eternal exaltation."[8]

## Sealing Authority

In preparing to receive the endowment and other ordinances of the temple, we
should understand the sealing authority of the priesthood. Jesus referred to
this authority long ago when He taught His Apostles, "Whatsoever thou shalt
bind on earth shall be bound in heaven."[9] That same authority has been
restored in these latter days. Just as priesthood is eternal--without
beginning or end--so is the effect of priesthood ordinances that bind families
together forever.

Temple ordinances, covenants, endowments, and sealings enable individuals to
be reconciled with the Lord and families to be sealed beyond the veil of
death. Obedience to temple covenants qualifies us for eternal life, the
greatest gift of God to man.[10] Eternal life is more than immortality.
Eternal life is exaltation in the highest heaven--the kind of life that God
lives.

## Temple Recommend

Preparation also includes qualification for a temple recommend. Our Redeemer
requires that His temples be protected from desecration. No unclean thing may
enter His hallowed house.[11] Yet anyone is welcome who prepares well. Each
person applying for a recommend will be interviewed by a judge in Israel--the
bishop--and by a stake president.[12] They hold keys of priesthood authority
and the responsibility to help us know when our preparation and timing are
appropriate to enter the temple. Their interviews will assess several vital
issues. They will ask if we obey the law of tithing, if we keep the Word of
Wisdom, and if we sustain the authorities of the Church. They will ask if we
are honest, if we are morally clean, and if we honor the power of procreation
as a sacred trust from our Creator.

Why are these issues so crucial? Because they are spiritual separators. They
help to determine if we truly live as children of the covenant,[13] able to
resist temptation from servants of sin.[14] These interviews help to discern
if we are willing to live in accord with the will of the true and living God
or if our hearts are still set "upon riches and ... vain things of the
world."[15]

Such requirements are not difficult to understand. Because the temple is the
house of the Lord, standards for admission are set by Him. One enters as His
guest. To hold a temple recommend is a priceless privilege and a tangible sign
of obedience to God and His prophets.[16]

## Physical Preparation for the Temple

One prepares physically for the temple by dressing properly. It is not a place
for casual attire. "We should dress in such a way that we might comfortably
attend a sacrament meeting or a gathering that is proper and dignified."[17]

Within the temple, all are dressed in spotless white to remind us that God is
to have a pure people.[18] Nationality, language, or position in the Church
are of secondary significance. In that democracy of dress, all sit side by
side and are considered equal in the eyes of our Maker.[19]

Brides and grooms enter the temple to be married for time and all eternity.
There brides wear white dresses--long sleeved, modest in design and fabric,
and free of elaborate ornamentation. Grooms also dress in white. And brethren
who come to witness weddings do not wear tuxedos.

Wearing the temple garment has deep symbolic significance. It represents a
continuing commitment.[20] Just as the Savior exemplified the need to endure
to the end, we wear the garment faithfully as part of the enduring armor of
God.[21] Thus we demonstrate our faith in Him and in His eternal covenants
with us.[22]

## Spiritual Preparation for the Temple

In addition to physical preparation, we prepare spiritually. Because the
ordinances and covenants of the temple are sacred, we are under solemn
obligation not to speak outside the temple of that which occurs in the temple.
There are, however, some principles we can discuss.

Each temple is a house of learning.[23] There we are taught in the Master's
way.[24] His way differs from modes of others. His way is ancient and rich
with symbolism. We can learn much by pondering the reality for which each
symbol stands.[25] Teachings of the temple are beautifully simple and simply
beautiful. They are understood by the humble, yet they can excite the
intellect of the brightest minds.

Spiritual preparation is enhanced by study. I like to recommend that members
going to the temple for the first time read short explanatory paragraphs in
the Bible Dictionary, listed under seven topics:[26] "Anoint,"[27]
"Atonement,"[28] "Christ,"[29] "Covenant,"[30] "Fall of Adam,"[31]
"Sacrifices,"[32] and "Temple."[33] Doing so will provide a firm foundation.

One may also read in the Old Testament[34] and the books of Moses and Abraham
in the Pearl of Great Price. Such a review of ancient scripture is even more
enlightening _after_ one is familiar with the temple endowment. Those books
underscore the antiquity of temple work.[35]

With each ordinance is a covenant--a promise. A covenant made with God is not
restrictive, but protective. Such a concept is not new. For example, if our
water supply is not clean, we filter the water to screen out harmful
ingredients. Divine covenants help us to filter out of our minds impurities
that could harm us. When we choose to deny ourselves of all ungodliness,[36]
we lose nothing of value and gain the glory of eternal life. Covenants do not
hold us down; they elevate us beyond the limits of our own power and
perspective.

## Eternal Perspective

President Hinckley has explained that lofty perspective: "There is a goal
beyond the Resurrection," he said. "That is exaltation in our Father's
kingdom. ... It will begin with acceptance of him as our Eternal Father and of
his son as our living Redeemer. It will involve participation in various
ordinances, each one important and necessary. The first of these is baptism by
immersion in water, without which, according to the Savior, a man cannot enter
into the kingdom of God. There must follow the birth of the Spirit, the gift
of the Holy Ghost. Then in succession through the years will come, for men,
ordination to the priesthood, followed by the blessings of the temple for both
men and women who are worthy to enter therein. These temple blessings include
our washings and anointings that we may be clean before the Lord. They include
the ... endowment of obligations and blessings that motivate us to behavior
compatible with the principles of the gospel. They include the sealing
ordinances by which that which is bound on earth is bound in heaven, providing
for the continuity of the family."[37]

I have learned that temple blessings are most meaningful when death takes a
loved one away from the family circle. To know that the pain of separation is
only temporary provides peace that passes ordinary understanding.[38] Death
cannot sever families sealed in the temple. They understand death as a
necessary part of God's great plan of happiness.[39]

Such perspective helps us to maintain fidelity to covenants made. President
Boyd K. Packer emphasized that "ordinances and covenants become our
credentials for admission into [God's] presence. To worthily receive them is
the quest of a lifetime; to keep them thereafter is the challenge of
mortality."[40]

Ordinances of the temple relate to _personal_ progress and to the redemption
of departed _ancestors_ as well. "For their salvation is necessary and
essential to our salvation, ... they without us cannot be made perfect--neither
can we without our dead be made perfect."[41] Service in their behalf provides
repeated opportunities for temple worship. And that service deserves
commitment to a planned schedule. By doing for others what they cannot do for
themselves, we emulate the pattern of the Savior, who wrought the Atonement to
bless the lives of other people.

One day we will meet our Maker and stand before Him at Judgment.[42] We will
be judged according to our ordinances, covenants, deeds, and the desires of
our hearts.[43]

Meanwhile, in this world smitten with spiritual decay, can individuals
prepared for temple blessings make a difference? Yes! Those Saints are "the
covenant people of the Lord, ... armed with righteousness and with the power of
God in great glory."[44] Their example can lift the lives of all humankind. I
so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. See [Ex. 28:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/28.36?lang=eng#35); [Ex. 39:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/39.30?lang=eng#29); [Ps. 93:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/93.5?lang=eng#4). Translated equivalents are used on temples in non-English-speaking localities.

  2. See [Ex. 19:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/19.5-6?lang=eng#4); [Lev. 19:1-2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/19.1-2?lang=eng#0); [Ps. 24:3-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/24.3-5?lang=eng#2); [1 Thes. 4:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-thes/4.7?lang=eng#6); [Moro. 10:32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.32-33?lang=eng#31); [D&amp;C 20:69](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.69?lang=eng#68); [D&amp;C 110:6-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.6-9?lang=eng#5); see also Bible Dictionary, "Holiness," 703-4.

  3. [2 Ne. 9:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.48?lang=eng#47).

  4. See "Following the Master: Teachings of President Howard W. Hunter," _Ensign,_ Apr. 1995, 21-22; Howard W. Hunter, "The Great Symbol of Our Membership," _Tambuli,_ Nov. 1994, 3.

  5. "Of Missions, Temples, and Stewardship," _Ensign,_ Nov. 1995, 53.

  6. Gordon B. Hinckley, _Teachings of Gordon B. Hinckley_ (1997), 638.

  7. See [Moro. 10:4-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.4-5?lang=eng#3).

  8. _Discourses of Brigham Young,_ sel. John A. Widtsoe (1941), 416.

  9. [Matt. 16:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/16.19?lang=eng#18).

  10. See [D&amp;C 14:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/14.7?lang=eng#6).

  11. See [D&amp;C 109:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/109.20?lang=eng#19); see also [Isa. 52:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/52.11?lang=eng#10); [Alma 11:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.37?lang=eng#36); [3 Ne. 27:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.19?lang=eng#18).

  12. Or the branch president and mission president.

  13. See [3 Ne. 20:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/20.26?lang=eng#25); see also Russell M. Nelson, "Children of the Covenant," _Ensign,_ May 1995, 32.

  14. See [Rom. 6:17, 20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/6.17,20?lang=eng#16); [D&amp;C 121:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.17?lang=eng#16).

  15. [Alma 7:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.6?lang=eng#5).

  16. President Hinckley said, "I urge our people everywhere, with all of the persuasiveness of which I am capable, to live worthy to hold a temple recommend, to secure one and regard it as a precious asset, and to make a greater effort to go to the house of the Lord and partake of the spirit and the blessings to be had therein" ("Of Missions, Temples, and Stewardship," _Ensign,_ Nov. 1995, 53).

  17. Boyd K. Packer, _The Holy Temple_ (1980), 73.

  18. See Neal A. Maxwell, _"Not My Will, But Thine"_ (1988), 135; see also [D&amp;C 100:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/100.16?lang=eng#15).

  19. This reminds us that "God is no respecter of persons" ([Acts 10:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/10.34?lang=eng#33); see also [Moro. 8:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.12?lang=eng#11)).

  20. The Lord assured that even though "the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; ... my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my people be removed" (JST, Inspired Version, [Isa. 54:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/54.10?lang=eng#9)). Surely we would not ever want knowingly to discard from us an emblem of His everlasting covenant.

  21. See [Eph. 6:11-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/6.11-13?lang=eng#10); see also [Alma 46:13, 21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/46.13,21?lang=eng#12); [D&amp;C 27:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.15?lang=eng#14).

  22. In a letter dated 10 October 1988, the First Presidency wrote: "Practices frequently observed among the members of the Church suggest that some members do not fully understand the covenant they make in the temple to wear the garment in accordance with the spirit of the holy endowment."Church members who have been clothed with the garment in the temple have made a covenant to wear it throughout their lives. This has been interpreted to mean that it is worn as underclothing both day and night. ... The promise of protection and blessings is conditioned upon worthiness and faithfulness in keeping the covenant."The fundamental principle ought to be to wear the garment and not to find occasions to remove it. Thus, members should not remove either all or part of the garment to work in the yard or to lounge around the home in swimwear or immodest clothing. Nor should they remove it to participate in recreational activities that can reasonably be done with the garment worn properly beneath regular clothing. When the garment must be removed, such as for swimming, it should be restored as soon as possible."The principles of modesty and keeping the body appropriately covered are implicit in the covenant and should govern the nature of all clothing worn. Endowed members of the Church wear the garment as a reminder of the sacred covenants they have made with the Lord and also as a protection against temptation and evil. How it is worn is an outward expression of an inward commitment to follow the Savior."

  23. See [D&amp;C 88:119](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.119?lang=eng#118); [D&amp;C 109:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/109.8?lang=eng#7).

  24. In fact, He _is_ the way (see [John 14:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.6?lang=eng#5)).

  25. See John A. Widtsoe, "Temple Worship," _Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine,_ Apr. 1921, 62.

  26. Members of the Church who do not read English may find comparable terms in their language editions of the Guide to the Scriptures.

  27. Page 609, paragraphs 1, 4.

  28. Page 617, paragraphs 1-2.

  29. Page 633, paragraphs 1-3.

  30. Page 651, paragraphs 1-2.

  31. Page 670, paragraphs 1-2.

  32. Pages 765-66, paragraph 1.

  33. Pages 780-81, paragraphs 1-3.

  34. Chapters of special interest include [Ex. 26-29, 39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/26?lang=eng); [Lev. 8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/8?lang=eng); [2 Sam. 12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-sam/12?lang=eng) ([2 Sam. 12:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-sam/12.20?lang=eng#19)); [2 Chr. 6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-chr/6?lang=eng); [Isa. 22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/22?lang=eng); [Ezek. 16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezek/16?lang=eng).

  35. See [D&amp;C 124:40-41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.40-41?lang=eng#39).

  36. [2 Ne. 9:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.48?lang=eng#47).

  37. "Temples and Temple Work," _Ensign,_ Feb. 1982, 3.

  38. See [Philip. 4:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/4.7?lang=eng#6).

  39. See [Alma 42:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.8?lang=eng#7).

  40. "Covenants," _Ensign,_ May 1987, 24.

  41. [D&amp;C 128:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.15?lang=eng#14).

  42. See [2 Ne. 9:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.41?lang=eng#40).

  43. See [D&amp;C 137:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/137.9?lang=eng#8).

  44. [1 Ne. 14:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.14?lang=eng#13).

