# Taking upon Us the Name of Jesus Christ

On this Easter Sunday we rejoice in the resurrection of our Lord and Savior,
Jesus Christ. This is a holy day for all of Christianity. Countless Christians
attend worship services on this day to partake of the sacrament of the Lord's
Supper, which many call communion. (See [1 Cor.
10:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/10.16?lang=eng#15).)

Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are commanded to
partake of the sacrament each week. (See [D&amp;C 59:9,
12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.9%2C12?lang=eng#8).) In
doing so, they witness unto God the Eternal Father, as stated in the prayer on
the bread, that they are "willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and
always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them."
([D&amp;C 20:77](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.77?lang=eng#76); [Moro.
4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/4.3?lang=eng#2).) We should
ponder these sacred covenants during the sacrament service.

On this Easter Sunday it is appropriate to reflect on what it means to partake
of the sacrament. I will focus on the first of these solemn "witnesses" to God
the Eternal Father: that we are willing to take upon us the name of his Son.
What does this mean?

Our witness that we are willing to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ has
several different meanings. Some of these meanings are obvious, and well
within the understanding of our children. Others are only evident to those who
have searched the scriptures and pondered the wonders of eternal life.

One of the obvious meanings renews a promise we made when we were baptized.
Following the scriptural pattern, persons who are baptized witness before the
Church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to
take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him
to the end." ([D&amp;C 20:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.37?lang=eng#36); see also [2 Ne.
31:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.13?lang=eng#12); [Moro.
6:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.3?lang=eng#2).) When we
partake of the sacrament, we renew this covenant and all the other covenants
we made in the waters of baptism. (See Joseph Fielding Smith, _Doctrines of
Salvation,_ comp. Bruce R. McConkie, 3 vols., Salt Lake City: Bookcraft,
1954-56, 2:341, 346.)

As a second obvious meaning, we take upon us our Savior's name when we become
members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. By his
commandment, this church bears his name. (See [D&amp;C
115:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/115.4?lang=eng#3); [3
Ne. 27:7-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.7-8?lang=eng#6).)
Every member, young and old, is a member of the "household of God." ([Eph.
2:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/2.19?lang=eng#18).) As true
believers in Christ, as Christians, we have gladly taken his name upon us.
(See [Alma
46:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/46.15?lang=eng#14).) As King
Benjamin taught his people, "Because of the covenant which ye have made ye
shall be called the children of Christ, his sons, and his daughters; for
behold, this day he hath spiritually begotten you." ([Mosiah
5:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.7?lang=eng#6); see also
[Alma 5:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.14?lang=eng#13); [Alma
36:23-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.23-26?lang=eng#22).)

We also take upon us the name of Jesus Christ whenever we publicly proclaim
our belief in him. Each of us has many opportunities to proclaim our belief to
friends and neighbors, fellow workers, and casual acquaintances. As the
Apostle Peter taught the Saints of his day, we should "sanctify the Lord God
in [our] hearts: and be ready always to give an answer to every man that
asketh [us] a reason of the hope that is in [us]." ([1 Pet.
3:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/3.15?lang=eng#14).) In this, we
keep the modern commandment: "Take upon you the name of Christ, and speak the
truth in soberness." ([D&amp;C 18:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/18.21?lang=eng#20).)

A third meaning appeals to the understanding of those mature enough to know
that a follower of Christ is obligated to serve him. Many scriptural
references to the name of the Lord seem to be references to the work of his
kingdom. Thus, when Peter and the other Apostles were beaten, they rejoiced
"that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name." ([Acts
5:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/5.41?lang=eng#40).) Paul wrote
certain members who had ministered to the Saints that the Lord would not
forget the labor of love they had "shewed toward his name." ([Heb.
6:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/6.10?lang=eng#9).) According to
this meaning, by witnessing our willingness to take upon us the name of Jesus
Christ, we signify our willingness to do the work of his kingdom.

In these three relatively obvious meanings, we see that we take upon us the
name of Christ when we are baptized in his name, when we belong to his Church
and profess our belief in him, and when we do the work of his kingdom.

There are other meanings as well, deeper meanings that the more mature members
of the Church should understand and ponder as he or she partakes of the
sacrament.

It is significant that when we partake of the sacrament we do not witness that
we _take upon us_ the name of Jesus Christ. We witness that we are _willing_
to do so. (See [D&amp;C 20:77](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.77?lang=eng#76).) The fact that we only witness to our
willingness suggests that something else must happen before we actually take
that sacred name upon us in the most important sense.

What future event or events could this covenant contemplate? The scriptures
suggest two sacred possibilities, one concerning the authority of God,
especially as exercised in the temples, and the other--closely related--
concerning exaltation in the celestial kingdom.

The name of God is sacred. The Lord's Prayer begins with the words, "Our
Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name." ([Matt.
6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/6.9?lang=eng#8).) From Sinai came
the commandment, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain."
([Ex. 20:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.7?lang=eng#6), [Deut.
5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/5.11?lang=eng#10).) Latter-day
revelation equates this with using the name of God without authority. "Let all
men beware how they take my name in their lips," the Lord declares in a modern
revelation, for "many there be who ... use the name of the Lord, and use it in
vain, having not authority." ([D&amp;C
63:61-62](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/63.61-62?lang=eng#60).)

Consistent with these references, many scriptures that refer to "the name of
Jesus Christ" are obviously references to the authority of the Savior. This
was surely the meaning conveyed when the seventy reported to Jesus that "even
the devils are subject unto us through thy name." ([Luke
10:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/10.17?lang=eng#16).) The
Doctrine and Covenants employs this same meaning when it describes the Twelve
Apostles of this dispensation as "they who shall desire to take upon them my
name with full purpose of heart." ([D&amp;C
18:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.27?lang=eng#26).) The
Twelve are later designated as "special witnesses of the name of Christ in all
the world," and as those who "officiate in the name of the Lord, under the
direction of the Presidency of the Church." ([D&amp;C 107:23,
33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.23%2C33?lang=eng#22).)

By way of further illustration, the Old Testament contains scores of
references to the name of the Lord in a context where it clearly means the
authority of the Lord. Most of these references have to do with the temple.

When the children of Israel were still on the other side of the Jordan, the
Lord told them that when they entered the promised land there should be a
place where the Lord their God would "cause his name to dwell." ([Deut.
12:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/12.11?lang=eng#10); see also
[Deut. 14:23-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/14.23-24?lang=eng#22);
[Deut. 16:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/16.6?lang=eng#5).) Time
after time in succeeding revelations, the Lord and his servants referred to
the future temple as a house for "the name" of the Lord God of Israel. (See [1
Kgs. 3:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/3.2?lang=eng#1); [1 Kgs.
5:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/5.5?lang=eng#4); [1 Kgs. 8:16-20,
29, 44, 48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/8.16-20%2C29%2C44%2C48?lan
g=eng#15); [1 Chr. 22:8-10,
19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-chr/22.8-10%2C19?lang=eng#7); [1 Chr.
29:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-chr/29.16?lang=eng#15); [2 Chr.
2:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-chr/2.4?lang=eng#3); [2 Chr. 6:5-10,
20, 34, 38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-chr/6.5-10%2C20%2C34%2C38?lang
=eng#4).) After the temple was dedicated, the Lord appeared to Solomon and
told him that He had hallowed the temple "to put my name there for ever." ([1
Kgs. 9:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/9.3?lang=eng#2); [2 Chr.
7:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-chr/7.16?lang=eng#15).)

Similarly, in modern revelations the Lord refers to temples as houses built
"unto my holy name." ([D&amp;C 124:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/124.39?lang=eng#38); [D&amp;C
105:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/105.33?lang=eng#32);
[D&amp;C 109:2-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/109.2-5?lang=eng#1).) In the inspired dedicatory prayer of the
Kirtland Temple, the Prophet Joseph Smith asked the Lord for a blessing upon
"thy people upon whom thy name shall be put in this house." ([D&amp;C
109:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/109.26?lang=eng#25).)

All of these references to ancient and modern temples as houses for "the name"
of the Lord obviously involve something far more significant than a mere
inscription of his sacred name on the structure. The scriptures speak of the
Lord's putting his name in a temple because he gives authority for his name to
be used in the sacred ordinances of that house. That is the meaning of the
Prophet's reference to the Lord's putting his name upon his people in that
holy house. (See [D&amp;C 109:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/109.26?lang=eng#25).)

Willingness to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ can therefore be
understood as willingness to take upon us the authority of Jesus Christ.
According to this meaning, by partaking of the sacrament we witness our
willingness to participate in the sacred ordinances of the temple and to
receive the highest blessings available through the name and by the authority
of the Savior when he chooses to confer them upon us.

Another future event we may anticipate when we witness our willingness to take
that sacred name upon us concerns our relationship to our Savior and the
incomprehensible blessings available to those who will be called by his name
at the last day.

King Benjamin told his people, "There shall be no other name given nor any
other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only
in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent." ([Mosiah
3:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.17?lang=eng#16); see also
[2 Ne. 31:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.21?lang=eng#20).)
Peter proclaimed "the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth" to the leaders of the
Jews, declaring that "there is none other name under heaven given among men,
whereby we must be saved." ([Acts 4:10,
12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/4.10%2C12?lang=eng#9); see also
[D&amp;C 18:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/18.21?lang=eng#20).)

The scriptures proclaim that the Savior's atoning sacrifice was for those who
"believe on his name." Alma taught that Jesus Christ, the Son, the Only
Begotten of the Father, would come "to take away the sins of the world, yea,
the sins of every man who steadfastly believeth on his name." ([Alma
5:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.48?lang=eng#47); [Alma
9:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/9.27?lang=eng#26); [Alma
11:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.40?lang=eng#39); [Hel.
14:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/14.2?lang=eng#1).) In the words
of King Benjamin, "Whosoever doeth this shall be found at the right hand of
God, for he shall know the name by which he is called; for he shall be called
by the name of Christ." ([Mosiah
5:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.9?lang=eng#8).)

Thus, those who exercise faith in the sacred name of Jesus Christ and repent
of their sins and enter into his covenant and keep his commandments (see
[Mosiah 5:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.8?lang=eng#7)) can
lay claim on the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Those who do so will be
called by his name at the last day.

When the Savior taught the Nephites following his resurrection, he referred to
the scriptural statement that "ye must take upon you the name of Christ." He
explained, "For by this name shall ye be called at the last day; And whoso
taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the end, the same shall be saved at
the last day." ([3 Ne.
27:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.5-6?lang=eng#4).) That
same teaching is repeated in a modern revelation, which adds the caution that
"if they know not the name by which they are called, they cannot have place in
the kingdom of my Father." ([D&amp;C 18:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/18.25?lang=eng#24); see also [Alma
5:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.38?lang=eng#37).)

The Book of Mormon explains the significance of being called by the name of
Jesus Christ. When the Savior showed his spirit body to the brother of Jared,
he introduced himself as the Father and the Son, declaring that through his
redeeming sacrifice all mankind who believed on his name should have life
eternal through him, "and they shall become my sons and my daughters." ([Ether
3:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/3.14?lang=eng#13).) Abinadi
said of those who believed in the Lord and looked to him for a remission of
their sins "that these are his seed, or they are heirs of the kingdom of God."
([Mosiah
15:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/15.11?lang=eng#10).) He
continued this explanation as follows:

"For these are they whose sins he has borne; these are they for whom he has
died, to redeem them from their transgressions. And now, are they not his
seed?" ([Mosiah
15:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/15.12?lang=eng#11).)

Speaking through the prophet Alma, the Lord explained the significance of this
relationship: "For behold, in my name are they called; and if they know me
they shall come forth, and shall have a place eternally at my right hand."
([Mosiah
26:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/26.24?lang=eng#23).)

In these great scriptures from the Book of Mormon, we learn that those who are
qualified by faith and repentance and compliance with the laws and ordinances
of the gospel will have their sins borne by the Lord Jesus Christ. In
spiritual and figurative terms they will become the sons and daughters of
Christ, heirs to his kingdom. These are they who will be called by his name in
the last day.

According to this meaning, when we witness our _willingness_ to take upon us
the name of Jesus Christ, we are signifying our commitment to do all that we
can to achieve eternal life in the kingdom of our Father. We are expressing
our candidacy--our determination to strive for--exaltation in the celestial
kingdom.

Those who are found worthy to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ at the
last day are described in the great revelations recorded in the ninety-third
and seventy-sixth sections of the Doctrine and Covenants. Here the Savior
revealed to Joseph Smith that in due time, if we keep the commandments of God,
we can receive the "fulness" of the Father. ([D&amp;C
93:19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/93.19-20?lang=eng#18).) Here the Savior bears record that "all
those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the [Father],
and are the church of the Firstborn." ([D&amp;C
93:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.22?lang=eng#21).)
"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things. ... Wherefore,
as it is written, they are gods" who "shall dwell in the presence of God and
his Christ forever and ever." ([D&amp;C 76:55, 58,
62](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/76.55%2C58%2C62?lang=eng#54).) "And this is life eternal, that
they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast
sent." ([John 17:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2);
see also [D&amp;C 88:4-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.4-5?lang=eng#3).) This is the ultimate significance of taking
upon us the name of Jesus Christ.

When the priest offers the scriptural prayer on the bread at the sacrament
table, he prays that all who partake may "witness" unto God, the Eternal
Father, "that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son."
([D&amp;C 20:77](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.77?lang=eng#76); [Moro.
4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/4.3?lang=eng#2).) This witness
has several different meanings.

It causes us to renew the covenant we made in the waters of baptism to take
upon us the name of Jesus Christ and serve him to the end. We also take upon
us his name as we publicly profess our belief in him, as we fulfill our
obligations as members of his Church, and as we do the work of his kingdom.

But there is something beyond these familiar meanings, because what we witness
is not that we _take_ upon us his name but that we are _willing_ to do so. In
this sense, our witness relates to some future event or status whose
attainment is not self-assumed, but depends on the authority or initiative of
the Savior himself.

Scriptural references to the name of Jesus Christ often signify the authority
of Jesus Christ. In that sense, our willingness to take upon us his name
signifies our willingness to take upon us the authority of Jesus Christ in the
sacred ordinances of the temple, and to receive the highest blessings
available through his authority when he chooses to confer them upon us.

Finally, our willingness to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ affirms our
commitment to do all that we can to be counted among those whom he will choose
to stand at his right hand and be called by his name at the last day. In this
sacred sense, our witness that we are willing to take upon us the name of
Jesus Christ constitutes our declaration of candidacy for exaltation in the
celestial kingdom. Exaltation is eternal life, "the greatest of all the gifts
of God." ([D&amp;C 14:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/14.7?lang=eng#6).)

That is what we should ponder as we partake of the sacred emblems of the
sacrament. As we do so, we glory in the mission of the risen Lord, who lived
and taught and suffered and died and rose again that all mankind might have
immortality _and eternal life._ Of this I testify in the sacred name of the
Lord Jesus Christ, whose witness I am, amen.

