# Yes, Lord, I Will Follow Thee

"For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and
tongue, to teach his word."[1] Today this scripture is fulfilled once more as
I have been given the opportunity to express my feelings in my native tongue.

It was the year 1975, and I was serving in the Uruguay-Paraguay Mission as a
young missionary. During my first month in the mission, the zone leaders held
an activity to demonstrate a gospel principle. Each missionary in the zone was
blindfolded, and we were told that we were to follow a path leading to the
cultural hall. We were to follow the voice of one particular leader, a voice
we heard before starting to walk. However, we were warned that during the
journey, we would hear several voices that would try to confuse us and get us
to stray from the path.

After some minutes of hearing noises, talking, and--in the midst of it all--a
voice that said, "Follow me," I felt confident I was following the right
voice. When we arrived at the cultural hall of the chapel, we were asked to
take off our blindfolds. When I did so, I realized that there were two groups
and that I was in the group that had followed the wrong voice. "It sounded so
much like the right one," I said to myself.

That experience of 39 years ago had a lasting effect on me. I told myself,
"Never, ever again follow the wrong voice." Then I told myself, "Yes, Lord, I
will follow Thee."

I want to relate this experience with the Savior's tender invitation to us:

"I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep. ...

"My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me."[2]

The invitation to "follow Him" is the most simple, direct, and powerful
invitation we can receive. It comes from a clear voice that cannot be
confused.

The Lord invites us using various verbs: "Come unto me," "Follow me," "Walk
with me." In each case it is not a passive invitation; it is an invitation to
act. It is addressed to all mankind by the one who is the Prophet of prophets,
the Teacher of teachers, the Son of God, the Messiah.

## The Invitation to "Come unto Me"

"Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest."[3]

You who are not yet members of the Church will receive this invitation through
the voice of the missionaries with the words, "Will you read the Book of
Mormon? Will you pray? Will you attend church? Will you follow the example of
Jesus Christ and be baptized by those who have authority?"[4] How will you
answer this invitation today?[5]

I invite you to listen to and accept the message by saying, "Yes, Lord, I will
follow Thee!"

Carlos Badiola and his family, of Minas, Uruguay, were meeting with the
missionaries. Since the elders asked a lot of questions during the lessons,
they decided to invite a nonmember neighbor--a beautiful 14-year-old girl
named Norma--to help them answer. Norma was a dedicated high school student
who was studying the Bible at school that year, so when the missionaries asked
a question, Norma answered. She was a "golden investigator." The lesson taught
that day was about the Word of Wisdom.

When she returned home after the lesson with the missionaries, Norma knew what
she had to do. She said to her mother, "Mom, from now on, no more coffee with
milk for me. Just milk." That response was the visible manifestation of her
desire to accept the invitation to follow Christ, as extended by the
missionaries.

Both Carlos Badiola and Norma were baptized. Later on, following Norma's
example, her mother, father, and siblings were also baptized. Norma and I grew
up together in that little but powerful branch. Later on, when I returned from
serving a mission, we were married. I always knew that it would be easier to
follow the Savior with her by my side.

One who is a member of the Church and has accepted this invitation renews the
commitment each week by partaking of the sacrament.[6] Part of that commitment
includes keeping the commandments; by doing so you are saying, "Yes, Lord, I
will follow Thee!"[7]

## The Invitation to "Follow Me"

"Follow me" was the Lord's invitation to the rich young ruler. The rich man
had kept the commandments throughout his life. When he asked what more he
could do, he received an answer with a clear invitation: "Come, ... follow
me."[8] However, even though the invitation was simple, it was not without
sacrifice. It required effort--coupled with decision and action.

The prophet Nephi invited self-reflection when he questioned: "And [Jesus]
said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren,
can we follow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the
Father?"[9]

The invitation to "come unto me," to listen to His voice, and to follow it has
been the message of missionaries from the beginning, helping many to change
their lives for good.

Fifty years ago the missionaries entered my father's watchmaker shop to leave
a watch to be repaired. As good missionaries do, they took advantage of the
opportunity to speak with my father and mother about the gospel. My father
accepted the missionaries, and my mother accepted the message and invitation
to follow Christ. From that day to this, she has remained active in the
Church. She said, "Yes, Lord, I will follow Thee!"

As you strive to come to Him, you will gain the power to relieve life's
burdens, whether physical or spiritual, _and experience a positive inner
change that will help you be happier._

## The Invitation to "Walk with Me"

Enoch was called to preach the gospel to a difficult, hard-hearted people. He
did not feel qualified. He had doubts about whether he could do it. The Lord
calmed his doubts and strengthened his faith through the invitation "Walk with
me"--an invitation that, like a blind man's cane or a friend's arm, can guide
the footsteps of one whose step is not sure. By taking the Savior's arm and
walking with Him, Enoch found that his step became firm and he became a great
missionary and a prophet.[10]

The decision to "come unto me" and "follow me" is personal. When we accept
this invitation, our level of commitment is raised, and it is then that we can
"walk with Him." This level establishes a closer relationship with the Savior
--the fruit of our accepting the first invitation.

Norma and I individually accepted the invitation to "come unto me" and to
"follow me." Then, together, supporting each other, we have learned to walk
with Him.

The effort and the determination to seek Him and to follow Him will be
rewarded with the blessings we need.

Such was the case of the woman who, with great effort, managed to touch the
Savior's garment[11] or of Bartimaeus the blind man, whose determination was a
key factor in the miracle that happened in his life.[12] In both cases a
healing of body and spirit was granted.

Reach out your hand, touch His garment, accept His invitation, say, "Yes,
Lord, I will follow Thee!"--and walk with Him.

"Come unto me," "Follow me," and "Walk with me" are invitations containing
inherent power--for those who accept them--to transform your life and generate
a _change within you_ that will lead you to say, "[I] have no more disposition
to do evil, but to do good continually."[13]

As an outward manifestation of that change, you will feel the strong desire to
"succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble
knees."[14]

What steps can we take today to "walk with Him"?

  1. _Feed the desire_ to be a better follower of Christ.[15]
  2. _Pray_ for this desire that your faith in Him may grow.[16]
  3. _Obtain knowledge_ from the scriptures, lighting the way and strengthening your desire to change.[17]
  4. _Make the decision today_ to act and say, "Yes, Lord, I will follow Thee!" Simply knowing the truth will not change your world unless you turn knowledge into _action._[18]
  5. _Persevere_ in the decision you have made by exercising these principles daily.[19]

May the words of our beloved prophet, President Thomas S. Monson, motivate us
to action in our desire to accept the Savior's invitation. President Monson
said: "Who is the King of glory, this Lord of hosts? He is our Master. He is
our Savior. He is the Son of God. He is the Author of our Salvation. He
beckons, 'Follow me.' He instructs, 'Go, and do thou likewise.' He pleads,
'Keep my commandments.'"[20]

May we make the decision today to increase our level of worship and commitment
to God, and may our response to His invitation be heard loud and clear: "Yes,
Lord, I will follow Thee!"[21] In the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ,
amen.

This address was delivered in Spanish.

## References

  1. [Alma 29:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/29.8?lang=eng#7).

  2. [John 10:14, 27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/10.14,27?lang=eng#13).

  3. [Matthew 11:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28?lang=eng#27); see also [Isaiah 55:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/55.3?lang=eng#2).

  4. See _Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service_ (2004), 31, 195-202.

  5. See[ Acts 2:37-38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/2.37-38?lang=eng#36).

  6. See [Doctrine and Covenants 20:37, 77-79](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.37,77-79?lang=eng#36).

  7. See [Doctrine and Covenants 42:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.29?lang=eng#28).

  8. [Mark 10:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/10.21?lang=eng#20).

  9. [2 Nephi 31:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.10?lang=eng#9).

  10. See [Moses 6:33-35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.33-35?lang=eng#32).

  11. See [Luke 8:43-48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/8.43-48?lang=eng#42).

  12. See [Mark 10:46-52](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/10.46-52?lang=eng#45).

  13. [Mosiah 5:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.2?lang=eng#1).

  14. [Doctrine and Covenants 81:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/81.5?lang=eng#4); see also [Isaiah 35:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/35.3?lang=eng#2).

  15. See [Alma 22:15-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/22.15-16?lang=eng#14); Dallin H. Oaks, ["Desire,"](https://www.lds.org/null?lang=eng)_ Ensign_ or _Liahona,_ May 2011, 42-45.

  16. See [Alma 34:17-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.17-27?lang=eng#16); [37:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.37?lang=eng#36).

  17. See [Psalm 119:105](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/119.105?lang=eng#104); [Helaman 3:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/3.29?lang=eng#28).

  18. See [Mosiah 5:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.5?lang=eng#4).

  19. Ralph Waldo Emerson said, "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed but that our power to do has increased" (in Heber J. Grant, _Gospel Standards,_ comp. G. Homer Durham [1941], 355).

  20. Thomas S. Monson, "Finding Joy in the Journey," _Ensign_ or _Liahona,_ Nov. 2008, 88.

  21. See "Lord, I Would Follow Thee," _Hymns,_ no. 220.

