# The Atonement

Humbly I join the Book of Mormon prophet Jacob, who asked, "Why not speak of
the atonement of Christ?" [1]  This topic comprises our third article of
faith: "We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be
saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." [[A of F
1:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.3?lang=eng#2)]

Before we can comprehend the Atonement of Christ, however, we must first
understand the Fall of Adam. And before we can understand the Fall of Adam, we
must first understand the Creation. These three crucial components of the plan
of salvation relate to each other. [2]

## The Creation

The Creation culminated with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. They were
created in the image of God, with bodies of flesh and bone. [3]  Created in
the image of God and not yet mortal, they could not grow old and die. [4]
"And they would have had no children" [5]  nor experienced the trials of life.
(Please forgive me for mentioning children and the trials of life in the same
breath.) The creation of Adam and Eve was a _paradisiacal creation,_ one that
required a significant change before they could fulfill the commandment to
have children [6]  and thus provide earthly bodies for premortal spirit sons
and daughters of God.

## The Fall

That brings us to the Fall. Scripture teaches that "Adam fell that men might
be; and men are, that they might have joy." [7]  The Fall of Adam (and Eve)
constituted the _mortal creation_ and brought about the required changes in
their bodies, including the circulation of blood and other modifications as
well. [8]  They were now able to have children. They and their posterity also
became subject to injury, disease, and death. And a loving Creator blessed
them with healing power by which the life and function of precious physical
bodies could be preserved. For example, bones, if broken, could become solid
again. Lacerations of the flesh could heal themselves. And miraculously, leaks
in the circulation could be sealed off by components activated from the very
blood being lost. [9]

Think of the wonder of that power to heal! If you could create anything that
could repair itself, you would have created life in perpetuity. For example,
if you could create a chair that could fix its own broken leg, there would be
no limit to the life of that chair. Many of you walk on legs that were once
broken and do so because of your remarkable gift of healing.

Even though our Creator endowed us with this incredible power, He consigned a
counterbalancing gift to our bodies. It is the blessing of _aging,_ with
visible reminders that we are mortal beings destined one day to leave this
"frail existence." [10]  Our bodies change every day. As we grow older, our
broad chests and narrow waists have a tendency to trade places. We get
wrinkles, lose color in our hair--even the hair itself--to remind us that we
are mortal children of God, with a "manufacturer's guarantee" that we shall
not be stranded upon the earth forever. Were it not for the Fall, our
physicians, beauticians, and morticians would all be unemployed.

Adam and Eve, as mortal beings, were instructed to "worship the Lord their
God, and ... offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the
Lord." [11]  They were further instructed that "the life of the flesh is in
the blood: ... for it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul." [12]
Probation, procreation, and aging were all components of--and physical death
was essential to--God's "great plan of happiness." [13]

But mortal life, glorious as it is, was never the _ultimate_ objective of
God's plan. Life and death here on planet Earth were merely _means_ to an end
--not the _end_ for which we were sent.

## The Atonement

That brings us to the Atonement. Paul said, "As in Adam all die, even so in
Christ shall all be made alive." [14]  The Atonement of Jesus Christ became
the_ immortal creation._ He volunteered to answer the ends of a law previously
transgressed. [15]  And by the shedding of His blood, His [16]  and our
physical bodies could become perfected. They could again function without
blood, just as Adam's and Eve's did in their _paradisiacal_ form. Paul taught
that "flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; ... this mortal must
put on immortality." [17]

## Meaning of Atonement

With this background in mind, let us now ponder the deep meaning of the word
_atonement._ In the English language, the components are _at-one-ment,_
suggesting that a person is at one with another. Other languages [18]  employ
words that connote either _expiation_ or _reconciliation. Expiation_ means "to
atone for." _Reconciliation_ comes from Latin roots _re,_ meaning "again";
_con,_ meaning "with"; and _sella,_ meaning "seat." _Reconciliation,_
therefore, literally means "to sit again with."

Rich meaning is found in study of the word _atonement_ in the Semitic
languages of Old Testament times. In Hebrew, the basic word for atonement is
_kaphar,_ a verb that means "to cover" or "to forgive." [19]  Closely related
is the Aramaic and Arabic word _kafat,_ meaning "a close embrace"--no doubt
related to the Egyptian ritual embrace. References to that embrace are evident
in the Book of Mormon. One states that "the Lord hath redeemed my soul ... ; I
have beheld his glory, and I am encircled about eternally in the arms of his
love." [20]  Another proffers the glorious hope of our being "clasped in the
arms of Jesus." [21]

I weep for joy when I contemplate the significance of it all. To be redeemed
is to be atoned--received in the close embrace of God with an expression not
only of His forgiveness, but of our oneness of heart and mind. What a
privilege! And what a comfort to those of us with loved ones who have already
passed from our family circle through the gateway we call death!

Scriptures teach us more about the word atonement. The Old Testament has many
references to atonement, which called for animal sacrifice. Not any animal
would do. Special considerations included:

  * the selection of a firstling of the flock, without blemish,22

  * the sacrifice of the animal's life by the shedding of its blood,23

  * death of the animal without breaking a bone, and24

  * one animal could be sacrificed as a vicarious act for another.25

The Atonement of Christ fulfilled these prototypes of the Old Testament. He
was the firstborn Lamb of God, without blemish. His sacrifice occurred by the
shedding of blood. No bones of His body were broken--noteworthy in that both
malefactors crucified with the Lord had their legs broken. [26]  And His was a
vicarious sacrifice for others.

While the words _atone_ or _atonement,_ in any of their forms, appear only
once in the King James translation of the New Testament, [27]  they appear 35
times in the Book of Mormon. [28]  As another testament of Jesus Christ, it
sheds precious light on His Atonement, as do the Doctrine and Covenants and
the Pearl of Great Price. Latter-day revelation has added much to our biblical
base of understanding.

## Infinite Atonement

In preparatory times of the Old Testament, the practice of atonement was
finite--meaning it had an end. It was a symbolic forecast of the definitive
Atonement of Jesus the Christ. His Atonement is infinite--without an end. [29]
It was also infinite in that all humankind would be saved from never-ending
death. It was infinite in terms of His immense suffering. It was infinite in
time, putting an end to the preceding prototype of animal sacrifice. It was
infinite in scope--it was to be done once for all. [30]  And the mercy of the
Atonement extends not only to an infinite number of people, but also to an
infinite number of worlds created by Him. [31]  It was infinite beyond any
human scale of measurement or mortal comprehension.

Jesus was the only one who could offer such an infinite atonement, since He
was born of a mortal mother and an immortal Father. Because of that unique
birthright, Jesus was an infinite Being.

## The Ordeal of the Atonement

The ordeal of the Atonement centered about the city of Jerusalem. There the
greatest single act of love of all recorded history took place. [32]  Leaving
the upper room, Jesus and His friends crossed the deep ravine east of the city
and came to a garden of olive trees on the lower slopes of the Mount of
Olives. There in the garden bearing the Hebrew name of _Gethsemane_--meaning
"oil-press"--olives had been beaten and pressed to provide oil and food. There
at Gethsemane, the Lord "suffered the pain of all men, that all ... might repent
and come unto him." [33]  He took upon Himself the weight of the sins of all
mankind, bearing its massive load that caused Him to bleed from every pore.
[34]

Later He was beaten and scourged. A crown of sharp thorns was thrust upon His
head as an additional form of torture. [35]  He was mocked and jeered. He
suffered every indignity at the hands of His own people. "I came unto my own,"
He said, "and my own received me not." [36]  Instead of their warm embrace, He
received their cruel rejection. Then He was required to carry His own cross to
the hill of Calvary, where He was nailed to that cross and made to suffer
excruciating pain.

Later He said, "I thirst." [37]  To a doctor of medicine, this is a very
meaningful expression. Doctors know that when a patient goes into shock
because of blood loss, invariably that patient--if still conscious--with
parched and shriveled lips cries for water.

Even though the Father and the Son knew well in advance what was to be
experienced, the actuality of it brought indescribable agony. "And [Jesus]
said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from
me: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt." [38]  Jesus then
complied with the will of His Father. [39]  Three days later, precisely as
prophesied, He rose from the grave. He became the firstfruits of the
Resurrection. He had accomplished the Atonement, which could give immortality
and eternal life to all obedient human beings. All that the Fall allowed to go
awry, the Atonement allowed to go aright.

The Savior's gift of _immortality_ comes to all who have ever lived. But His
gift of _eternal life_ requires repentance and obedience to specific
ordinances and covenants. Essential ordinances of the gospel symbolize the
Atonement. Baptism by immersion is symbolic of the death, burial, and
Resurrection of the Redeemer. Partaking of the sacrament renews baptismal
covenants and also renews our memory of the Savior's broken flesh and of the
blood He shed for us. Ordinances of the temple symbolize our reconciliation
with the Lord and seal families together forever. Obedience to the sacred
covenants made in temples qualifies us for eternal life--the greatest gift of
God to man [40] --the "object and end of our existence." [41]

## The Atonement Enabled the Purpose of the Creation to Be Accomplished

The Creation required the Fall. The Fall required the Atonement. The Atonement
enabled the purpose of the Creation to be accomplished. Eternal life, made
possible by the Atonement, is the supreme purpose of the Creation. To phrase
that statement in its negative form, if families were not sealed in holy
temples, the whole earth would be utterly wasted. [42]

The purposes of the Creation, the Fall, and the Atonement all converge on the
sacred work done in temples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. The earth was created and the Church was restored to make possible the
sealing of wife to husband, children to parents, families to progenitors,
worlds without end.

This is the great latter-day work of which we are a part. That is why we have
missionaries; that is why we have temples--to bring the fullest blessings of
the Atonement to faithful children of God. That is why we respond to our own
calls from the Lord. When we comprehend His voluntary Atonement, any sense of
sacrifice on our part becomes completely overshadowed by a profound sense of
gratitude for the privilege of serving Him.

As one of the "special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world," [43]
I testify that He is the Son of the living God. Jesus is the Christ--our
atoning Savior and Redeemer. This is His Church, restored to bless God's
children and to prepare the world for the Second Coming of the Lord. I so
testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.   [Jacob 4:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.12?lang=eng#11).

  2.  The relationships of these components are found linked together in several scriptures, such as [Alma 18:34-39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/18.34-39?lang=eng#33); [Morm. 9:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/9.12?lang=eng#11); [D&amp;C 20:17-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.17-24?lang=eng#16).

  3.  They were created as _amortal_ beings--"without mortality"--not at that time subject to death.

  4.  See [Alma 12:21-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.21-23?lang=eng#20).

  5.   [2 Ne. 2:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.23?lang=eng#22).

  6.  See [Gen. 1:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/1.28?lang=eng#27); [Moses 2:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/2.28?lang=eng#27).

  7.   [2 Ne. 2:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.25?lang=eng#24).

  8.  We should remember that God forgave Adam and Eve their transgression (see [Moses 6:53](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.53?lang=eng#52)).

  9.  Such as platelets and thrombin.

  10.  Eliza R. Snow, "O My Father," _Hymns,_ no. 292.

  11.   [Moses 5:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.5?lang=eng#4).

  12.   [Lev. 17:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/17.11?lang=eng#10).

  13.   [Alma 42:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.8?lang=eng#7).

  14.   [1 Cor. 15:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.22?lang=eng#21); see also [Mosiah 16:7-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/16.7-8?lang=eng#6).

  15.  See [2 Ne. 2:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.7?lang=eng#6); also "Behold the Great Redeemer Die," _Hymns,_ no. 191.

  16.  See [Luke 13:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/13.32?lang=eng#31).

  17.   [1 Cor. 15:50-53](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.50-53?lang=eng#49).

  18.  Such as Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, and German.

  19.  We might even surmise that if an individual qualifies for the blessings of the Atonement (through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel), Jesus will "cover" our past transgressions from the Father.

  20.   [2 Ne. 1:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.15?lang=eng#14).

  21.   [Morm. 5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/5.11?lang=eng#10); additional examples are in [Alma 5:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.33?lang=eng#32); [Alma 34:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.16?lang=eng#15).

  22.  See [Lev. 5:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/5.18?lang=eng#17); [Lev. 27:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/27.26?lang=eng#25).

  23.  See [Lev. 9:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/9.18?lang=eng#17).

  24.  See [Ex. 12:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/12.46?lang=eng#45); [Num. 9:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/num/9.12?lang=eng#11).

  25.  See [Lev. 16:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/16.10?lang=eng#9).

  26.  See [John 19:31-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.31-33?lang=eng#30).

  27.  See [Rom. 5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/5.11?lang=eng#10).

  28.   _Atonement_=24; plus _atone, atoning,_ or _atoned_=8; plus _atoneth_=3; total 35 times.

  29.  See [2 Ne. 9:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.7?lang=eng#6); [2 Ne. 25:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.16?lang=eng#15); [Alma 34:10, 12, 14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.10%2C12%2C14?lang=eng#9).

  30.  See [Heb. 10:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/10.10?lang=eng#9).

  31.  See [D&amp;C 76:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.24?lang=eng#23); [Moses 1:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.33?lang=eng#32).

  32.  See [John 3:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/3.16?lang=eng#15).

  33.   [D&amp;C 18:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.11?lang=eng#10).

  34.  See [Luke 22:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.44?lang=eng#43); [D&amp;C 19:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.18?lang=eng#17).

  35.  See [Matt. 27:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/27.29?lang=eng#28); [Mark 15:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/15.17?lang=eng#16); [John 19:2, 5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.2%2C5?lang=eng#1).

  36.   [3 Ne. 9:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/9.16?lang=eng#15); see also [D&amp;C 6:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.21?lang=eng#20); [D&amp;C 10:57](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/10.57?lang=eng#56); [D&amp;C 11:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/11.29?lang=eng#28); [D&amp;C 39:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/39.3?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C 45:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.8?lang=eng#7); [D&amp;C 133:66](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.66?lang=eng#65).

  37.   [John 19:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.28?lang=eng#27).

  38.   [Mark 14:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.36?lang=eng#35). The word _Abba_ is significant. _Ab_ means "father"; _Abba_ is an endearing and tender form of that term. The nearest English equivalent might be _Daddy._

  39.  Centuries later, the Lord shared innermost recollections of this experience with the Prophet Joseph Smith, the record of which we read in Doctrine and Covenants 19.

  40.  See [D&amp;C 14:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/14.7?lang=eng#6).

  41.  Bruce R. McConkie, _The Promised Messiah_ (1978), 568.

  42.  See [D&amp;C 2:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/2.3?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C 138:48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.48?lang=eng#47).

  43.   [D&amp;C 107:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.23?lang=eng#22).

