# Being a Righteous Husband and Father

My dear brethren of the priesthood, I consider it a privilege to meet with you
this evening in this general priesthood meeting. The priesthood is the
greatest brotherhood on the earth. I feel great strength in seeing your
faithfulness and feeling your love and sustaining vote. We are particularly
grateful to have so many of our Aaronic Priesthood brethren here with their
fathers or advisers.

The subject of my address this evening will be more particularly directed to
the husbands and fathers. All of you who hold the Aaronic Priesthood will soon
arrive at the years of marriage and fatherhood. Therefore, what I say tonight
has application to all present.

I wish to speak of the relationship that a man holding the priesthood should
have with his wife and children. With a knowledge of the plan of salvation as
a foundation, a man who holds the priesthood looks upon marriage as a sacred
privilege and obligation. It is not good for man nor for woman to be alone.
Man is not complete without woman. Neither can fill the measure of their
creation without the other (see [1 Cor.
11:11](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.11?lang=eng#10); [Moses
3:18](/scriptures/pgp/moses/3.18?lang=eng#17)). Marriage between a man and a
woman is ordained of God (see [D&amp;C 49:15-17](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/49.15-17?lang=eng#14)). Only through the new and everlasting
covenant of marriage can they realize the fulness of eternal blessings (see
[D&amp;C 131:1-4](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/131.1-4?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C
132:15-19](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.15-19?lang=eng#14)). As a matter of
priesthood responsibility, a man, under normal circumstances, should not
unduly postpone marriage. Brethren, the Lord has spoken plainly on this
matter. It is your sacred and solemn responsibility to follow his counsel and
the words of his prophets.

The prophets of the past have spoken also of those who may not have
opportunity to marry in this life. President Lorenzo Snow said:

"There is no Latter-day Saint who dies after having lived a faithful life who
will lose anything because of having failed to do certain things when
opportunities were not furnished him or her. In other words, if a young man or
a young woman has no opportunity of getting married, and they live faithful
lives up to the time of their death, they will have all the blessings,
exaltation, and glory that any man or woman will have who had this opportunity
and improved it. That is sure and positive" (_The Teachings of Lorenzo Snow,_
comp. Clyde J. Williams, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1984, p. 138).

I believe President Snow's statement to be true.

A man who holds the priesthood shows perfect moral fidelity to his wife and
gives her no reason to doubt his faithfulness. A husband is to love his wife
with all his heart and cleave unto her and none else (see [D&amp;C
42:22-26](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.22-26?lang=eng#21)). President
Spencer W. Kimball explained:

"The words _none else_ eliminate everyone and everything. The spouse then
becomes pre-eminent in the life of the husband or wife and neither social life
nor occupational life nor political life nor any other interest nor person nor
thing shall ever take precedence over the companion spouse" (_The Miracle of
Forgiveness,_ Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1969, p. 250).

The Lord forbids and his church condemns any and every intimate relationship
outside of marriage. Infidelity on the part of a man breaks the heart of his
wife and loses her confidence and the confidence of his children (see [Jacob
2:35](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.35?lang=eng#34)).

Be faithful in your marriage covenants in thought, word, and deed.
Pornography, flirtations, and unwholesome fantasies erode one's character and
strike at the foundation of a happy marriage. Unity and trust within a
marriage are thereby destroyed. One who does not control his thoughts and thus
commits adultery in his heart, if he does not repent, shall not have the
Spirit, but shall deny the faith and shall fear (see [D&amp;C
42:23](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.23?lang=eng#22); [D&amp;C
63:16](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/63.16?lang=eng#15)).

A man who holds the priesthood has reverence for motherhood. Mothers are given
a sacred privilege to "bear the souls of men; for herein is the work of [the]
Father continued, that he may be glorified" ([D&amp;C 132:63](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/132.63?lang=eng#62)).

The First Presidency has said: "Motherhood is near to divinity. It is the
highest, holiest service to be assumed by mankind" (in James R. Clark, comp.,
_Messages of the First Presidency,_ 6 vols., Salt Lake City: Bookcraft,
1965-75, 6:178). The priesthood cannot work out its destiny, nor can God's
purposes be fulfilled, without our helpmates. Mothers perform a labor the
priesthood cannot do. For this gift of life, the priesthood should have love
unbounded for the mothers of their children.

Honor your wife's unique and divinely appointed role as a mother in Israel and
her special capacity to bear and nurture children. We are under divine
commandment to multiply and replenish the earth and to bring up our children
and grandchildren in light and truth (see [Moses
2:28](/scriptures/pgp/moses/2.28?lang=eng#27); [D&amp;C 93:40](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/93.40?lang=eng#39)). You share, as a loving partner, the care of
the children. Help her to manage and keep up your home. Help teach, train, and
discipline your children.

You should express regularly to your wife and children your reverence and
respect for her. Indeed, one of the greatest things a father can do for his
children is to love their mother.

A man who holds the priesthood regards the family as ordained of God. Your
leadership of the family is your most important and sacred responsibility. The
family is the most important unit in time and in eternity and, as such,
transcends every other interest in life.

We reiterate what was stated by President David O. McKay: "No other success
[in life] can compensate for failure in the home" (David O. McKay quoting J.
E. McCulloch, "Home: the Savior of Civilization," in Conference Report, Apr.
1935, p. 116) and President Harold B. Lee: "The most important of the Lord's
work you and I will ever do will be within the walls of our own homes" (Harold
B. Lee, _Stand Ye in Holy Places,_ Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1974, p.
255). Effective family leadership, brethren, requires both quantity and
quality time. The teaching and governance of the family must not be left to
your wife alone, to society, to school, or even the Church.

A man who holds the priesthood accepts his wife as a partner in the leadership
of the home and family with full knowledge of and full participation in all
decisions relating thereto. Of necessity there must be in the Church and in
the home a presiding officer (see [D&amp;C 107:21](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/107.21?lang=eng#20)). By divine appointment, the responsibility
to preside in the home rests upon the priesthood holder (see [Moses
4:22](/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.22?lang=eng#21)). The Lord intended that the
wife be a helpmeet for man (_meet_ means equal)--that is, a companion equal
and necessary in full partnership. Presiding in righteousness necessitates a
shared responsibility between husband and wife; together you act with
knowledge and participation in all family matters. For a man to operate
independent of or without regard to the feelings and counsel of his wife in
governing the family is to exercise unrighteous dominion.

Keep yourselves above any domineering or unworthy behavior in the tender,
intimate relationship between husband and wife. Because marriage is ordained
of God, the intimate relationship between husbands and wives is good and
honorable in the eyes of God. He has commanded that they be one flesh and that
they multiply and replenish the earth (see [Moses
2:28](/scriptures/pgp/moses/2.28?lang=eng#27); [Moses
3:24](/scriptures/pgp/moses/3.24?lang=eng#23)). You are to love your wife as
Christ loved the Church and gave himself for it (see [Eph.
5:25-31](/scriptures/nt/eph/5.25-31?lang=eng#24)).

Tenderness and respect--never selfishness--must be the guiding principles in
the intimate relationship between husband and wife. Each partner must be
considerate and sensitive to the other's needs and desires. Any domineering,
indecent, or uncontrolled behavior in the intimate relationship between
husband and wife is condemned by the Lord.

Any man who abuses or demeans his wife physically or spiritually is guilty of
grievous sin and in need of sincere and serious repentance. Differences should
be worked out in love and kindness and with a spirit of mutual reconciliation.
A man should always speak to his wife lovingly and kindly, treating her with
the utmost respect. Marriage is like a tender flower, brethren, and must be
nourished constantly with expressions of love and affection.

You who hold the priesthood must not be abusive in your relationship with
children. Seek always to employ the principles of priesthood government set
forth in the revelations (see [D&amp;C 93:40](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/93.40?lang=eng#39); [D&amp;C 121:34-36, 41-45](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.34-36,41-45?lang=eng#33)).

President George Albert Smith wisely counseled: "We should not lose our
tempers and abuse one another. ... Nobody ever abused anybody else when he had
the spirit of the Lord. It is always when we have some other spirit" (in
Conference Report, Oct. 1950, p. 8).

No man who has been ordained to the priesthood of God can with impunity abuse
his wife or child. Sexual abuse of children has long been a cause for
excommunication from the Church.

We encourage you, brethren, to remember that priesthood is a righteous
authority only. Earn the respect and confidence of your children through your
loving relationship with them. A righteous father protects his children with
his time and presence in their social, educational, and spiritual activities
and responsibilities. Tender expressions of love and affection toward children
are as much the responsibility of the father as the mother. Tell your children
you love them.

You who hold the priesthood have the responsibility, unless disabled, to
provide temporal support for your wife and children. No man can shift the
burden of responsibility to another, not even to his wife. The Lord has
commanded that women and children have claim on their husbands and fathers for
their maintenance (see [D&amp;C 83](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/83?lang=eng);
[1 Tim. 5:8](/scriptures/nt/1-tim/5.8?lang=eng#7)). President Ezra Taft Benson
has stated that when a husband encourages or insists that his wife work out of
the home for their convenience, "not only will the family suffer in such
instances, ... but [his] own spiritual growth and progression will be hampered"
(_Ensign,_ Nov. 1987, p. 49).

We urge you to do all in your power to allow your wife to remain in the home,
caring for the children while you provide for the family the best you can. We
further emphasize that men who abandon their family and fail to meet their
responsibility to care for those they have fathered may find their eligibility
for a temple recommend and their standing in the Church in jeopardy. In cases
of divorce or separation, men must demonstrate that they are meeting family
support payments mandated by law and obligated by the principles of the Church
in order to qualify for the blessings of the Lord.

A man who holds the priesthood leads his family in Church participation so
they will know the gospel and be under the protection of the covenants and
ordinances. If you are to enjoy the blessings of the Lord, you must set your
own homes in order. Together with your wife, you determine the spiritual
climate of your home. Your first obligation is to get your own spiritual life
in order through regular scriptural study and daily prayer. Secure and honor
your priesthood and temple covenants; encourage your family to do the same.

Take seriously your responsibility to teach the gospel to your family through
regular family home evening, family prayer, devotional and scripture-reading
time, and other teaching moments. Give special emphasis to preparation for
missionary service and temple marriage. As patriarch in the home, exercise
your priesthood through performing the appropriate ordinances for your family
and by giving blessings to your wife and children. Next to your own salvation,
brethren, there is nothing so important to you as the salvation of your wife
and children.

Brethren, I have spoken plainly to you regarding your responsibility as
holders of the holy priesthood. If there are areas in your life where
improvement may be needed, I encourage you to make this a matter of prayerful
consideration.

I testify that this is what the Lord would have the brethren of the priesthood
receive at this time. May you be blessed in your efforts to be righteous
husbands and fathers, I pray as I bear solemn witness of the truthfulness of
that which has been spoken this evening and do so in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

