# Tithingâ€”a Commandment Even for the Destitute

In Charles Dickens's timeless classic _A Christmas Carol,_ Bob Cratchit hoped
to spend Christmas Day with his family. "'If quite _convenient,_ Sir,'" he
asked his employer, Mr. Scrooge.

"'It's _not convenient,_' said Scrooge, 'and it's not fair. If I was to stop
half-a-crown for it, you'd think yourself ill used.' ...

"'And yet,' said Scrooge, 'you don't think _me_ ill-used, when I pay a day's
wages for no work.'

"The clerk observed that it was only once a year.

"'A poor excuse for picking a man's pocket every twenty-fifth of December!'
said Scrooge."[1]

For Scrooge--as with any selfish, or "natural," man--sacrifice is never
_convenient._

The natural man has a tendency to think only of himself--not only to place
himself first, but rarely, if ever, to place anyone else second, including
God. For the natural man, sacrifice does not come naturally. He has an
insatiable appetite for more. His so-called needs seem to always outpace his
income so that having "enough" is forever out of reach, just as it was for the
miser Scrooge.

Because the natural man tends to hoard or consume everything, the Lord wisely
commanded ancient Israel to sacrifice not the last and poorest of the flock,
but the firstlings--not the leftovers of the field, but the firstfruits (see
[Deut. 26:2](/scriptures/ot/deut/26.2?lang=eng#1); [Mosiah
2:3](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.3?lang=eng#2); [Moses
5:5](/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.5?lang=eng#4)). Genuine sacrifice has been a
hallmark of the faithful from the beginning.

Among those who do _not_ sacrifice there are two extremes: one is the rich,
gluttonous man who won't and the other is the poor, destitute man who believes
he can't. But how can you ask someone who is starving to eat less? _Is_ there
a level of poverty _so_ low that sacrifice should not be expected or a family
so destitute that paying tithing should cease to be required?

The Lord often teaches using extreme circumstances to illustrate a principle.
The story of the widow of Zarephath is an example of extreme poverty used to
teach the doctrine that mercy cannot rob sacrifice any more than it can rob
justice. In fact, the truer measure of sacrifice isn't so much what one gives
to sacrifice as what one sacrifices to give (see [Mark
12:43](/scriptures/nt/mark/12.43?lang=eng#42)). Faith isn't tested so much
when the cupboard is full as when it is bare. In these defining moments, the
crisis doesn't create one's character--it reveals it. The crisis is the test.

The widow of Zarephath lived in the days of the prophet Elijah, by whose word
the Lord brought a drought upon the land for three and a half years (see [Luke
4:25](/scriptures/nt/luke/4.25?lang=eng#24)). The famine grew so severe that
many were finally at the point of death. This is the circumstance in which we
find the widow.

The Lord says to Elijah, "Arise, get thee to Zarephath ... : behold, I have
commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee" ([1 Kgs.
17:9](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/17.9?lang=eng#8)). It is interesting that Elijah is
not told to go to Zarephath until the widow and her son are at the point of
death. It is at this extreme moment--facing starvation--that her faith will be
tested.

As he comes into the city he sees her gathering sticks.

"And he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a
vessel, that I may drink.

"And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I
pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand.

"And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an handful
of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and, behold, I am gathering
two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat
it, and die" ([1 Kgs. 17:10-12](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/17.10-12?lang=eng#9)).

A _handful of meal_ would be very little indeed, perhaps just enough for one
serving, which makes Elijah's response intriguing. Listen: "And Elijah said
unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said: but make me thereof a little
cake _first_" ([1 Kgs. 17:13](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/17.13?lang=eng#12);
emphasis added).

Now doesn't that sound selfish, asking not just for the first piece, but
possibly the only piece? Didn't our parents teach us to let other people go
first and especially for a gentleman to let a lady go first, let alone a
starving widow? Her choice--does she eat, or does she sacrifice her last meal
and hasten death? Perhaps she will sacrifice her own food, but could she
sacrifice the food meant for her starving son?

Elijah understood the doctrine that blessings come _after_ the trial of our
faith (see [Ether 12:6](/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.6?lang=eng#5); [D&amp;C
132:5](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.5?lang=eng#4)). He wasn't being
selfish. As the Lord's servant, Elijah was there to give, not to take.
Continuing from the narrative:

"But make me thereof a little cake_ first_ [the firstlings], and bring it unto
me, and _after_ make for thee and for thy son.

"For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall not waste,
neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the Lord sendeth rain
upon the earth.

"And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and
her house, did eat many days.

"And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail,
according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah" ([1 Kgs.
17:13-16](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/17.13-16?lang=eng#12); emphasis added).

One reason the Lord illustrates doctrines with the most extreme circumstances
is to eliminate excuses. If the Lord expects even the poorest widow to pay her
mite, where does that leave all others who find that it is not _convenient_ or
easy to sacrifice?

No bishop, no missionary should ever hesitate or lack the faith to teach the
law of tithing to the poor. The sentiment of "They can't _afford_ to" needs to
be replaced with "They can't afford _not_ to."

One of the first things a bishop _must_ do to help the needy is ask them to
pay their tithing. Like the widow, if a destitute family is faced with the
decision of paying their tithing or eating, they should pay their tithing. The
bishop can help them with their food and other basic needs until they become
self-reliant.

In October of 1998 Hurricane Mitch devastated many parts of Central America.
President Gordon B. Hinckley was very concerned for the victims of this
disaster, many of whom lost everything--food, clothing, and household goods.
He visited the Saints in the cities of San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa,
Honduras; and Managua, Nicaragua. And like the words of the loving prophet
Elijah to a starving widow, this modern prophet's message in each city was
similar--to sacrifice and be obedient to the law of tithing.

But how can you ask someone so destitute to sacrifice? President Hinckley knew
that the food and clothing shipments they received would help them survive the
crisis, but his concern and love for them went far beyond that. As important
as humanitarian aid is, he knew that the most important assistance comes from
God, not from man. The prophet wanted to help them unlock the windows of
heaven as promised by the Lord in the book of Malachi (see [Mal.
3:10](/scriptures/ot/mal/3.10?lang=eng#9); [Mosiah
2:24](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.24?lang=eng#23)).

President Hinckley taught them that if they would pay their tithing, they
would always have food on their tables, they would always have clothing on
their backs, and they would always have a roof over their heads.

When serving a meal, it is much easier to set one more plate at the beginning
of the meal than it is to find food for a latecomer once the meal is over and
the food has been served. Likewise, isn't it actually easier to give the Lord
the firstlings or the firstfruits than it is to hope that there are sufficient
"leftovers" for Him? As the founder of our feast, shouldn't _He_ be the guest
of honor, the first to be served?

My loving mother, Evelyn Robbins, taught me the law of tithing when I was four
years old. She gave me an empty Band-Aid box, the tin kind with a snapping
lid. She taught me to keep my tithing pennies in it and then take it to the
bishop. I am eternally grateful for her, for that Band-Aid box, and for the
blessings that have come from paying tithing.

In _A Christmas Carol,_ Mr. Scrooge changed his ways--he was not the man he
had been. Likewise, this is the gospel of repentance. If the Spirit is
prompting us to more fully obey the law of sacrifice in our life, may we begin
making that change today.

I am so grateful for the Savior, who was the perfect example of obedience
through sacrifice--who offered "himself a sacrifice for sin" and became, in
Lehi's words, "the _firstfruits_ unto God" ([2 Ne. 2:7,
9](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.7,9?lang=eng#6); emphasis added). I bear witness of
Him and of these, His doctrines, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. _The Annotated Christmas Carol,_ ed. Michael Patrick Hearn (1976), 69; emphasis added.

