# To the Children of the Church

My dear brethren and sisters, how I have rejoiced in the messages I have heard
delivered from this pulpit at this great general conference of the Church.

The messages are true. They are important. They are vital to our personal
salvation, and with all my heart I commend them to you.

In previous general meetings of the Church, I have spoken specifically to the
mothers and to the fathers, to the young men and to the young women, to the
single adult sisters and to the single adult brethren.

For my closing message at this conference, I would now like to speak to the
children of the Church--yes, to _you,_ our precious children. And as you
listen, I pray that you will know that this is a personal message just for
you.

How I love you! How our Heavenly Father loves you!

Just like the beautiful Primary song you sing, each of you truly _is_ a child
of God. For you, rich blessings _are_ in store, and if you learn to do His
will, you _will_ live with Him once more. I know this to be true. (See "I Am a
Child of God," _Hymns,_ 1985, no. 301.)

Today I desire to teach you what our Heavenly Father wants you to know so that
you can learn to do His will and enjoy true happiness. It will help you now
and throughout your life.

First, may I say how thrilled I am to know how you children are learning about
the Book of Mormon. This is one of the very important things Heavenly Father
wants you to do.

I know you are reading the Book of Mormon, for I have received hundreds of
personal letters from you telling me that you are reading this sacred book. It
makes me weep for joy when I hear this.

Many of you have read the Book of Mormon all the way through. In family home
evening and in Primary you have dramatized Book of Mormon stories, you have
sung songs about the Book of Mormon, you have learned the names of the books
in the Book of Mormon, you have played Book of Mormon games, you have learned
about wonderful Book of Mormon prophets. Some of you have even earned money to
send copies of the Book of Mormon around the world.

How pleased I am to hear of your love for the Book of Mormon. _I_ love it too,
and Heavenly Father wants you to continue to learn from the Book of Mormon
every day. It's Heavenly Father's special gift to you. By following its
teachings, you will learn to do the will of our Father in Heaven.

I also hope your parents and leaders will give you opportunities to learn from
the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and the Bible as well.

Now, there are other important things Heavenly Father wants you to do.

He wants you to pray to Him every day. He wants to help you because He loves
you, and He _will_ help you if you pray to Him and ask Him for His help. In
your prayers, also thank Him for your blessings. Thank Him for sending our
oldest brother, Jesus Christ, into the world. He made it possible for us to
return to our heavenly home. Thank Him for your family. Thank Him for the
Church. Thank Him for this beautiful world you live in. Ask Him to protect
you. In your prayers, ask Him to help you know what to do in your life. When
you make mistakes, your Heavenly Father still loves you. So pray to Him, and
He will help you try again to do right.

Pray to Heavenly Father to bless you with His Spirit at all times. We often
call the Spirit the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost is also a gift from Heavenly
Father. The Holy Ghost helps you to choose the right. The Holy Ghost will
protect you from evil. He whispers to you in a still, small voice to do right.
When you _do_ good, you _feel_ good, and that is the Holy Ghost speaking to
you. The Holy Ghost is a wonderful companion. He is _always_ there to help
you.

My dear boys and girls, honor your fathers and mothers. They will help you
make good decisions. Enjoy and respect your grandparents. Be a real friend to
your brothers and sisters. Choose friends who have high ideals. Choose friends
who will help you to be good.

Attend sacrament meeting. Listen carefully to what your bishop says. He is an
important spiritual leader who has a special calling from Heavenly Father to
help you.

Enjoy Primary, and attend every week. Bring your member and nonmember friends
to Primary. Learn the Primary songs well. They are wonderful. Memorize the
Articles of Faith and earn the Gospel in Action Award.

Be honest. Do not lie nor steal. Do not cheat. Do not use profanity, but be
clean in your thoughts and speech.

Be a _true_ Latter-day Saint. Stand up for your beliefs. One of my favorite
Primary songs is "Dare to Do Right." Some of the words are:

_Dare to do right! dare to be true!_

_You have a work that no other can do;_

_Do it so bravely, so kindly, so well,_

_Angels will hasten the story to tell._

Remember, Satan does not want you to be happy. He does not want you to dare to
do right. He wants you to be miserable, as he is. He has captured the hearts
of wicked men and women who would have you participate in bad things such as
pornography, drugs, profanity, and immorality. Stay away from these evils.
Avoid books, magazines, videos, movies, and television shows that are not
good. As the scriptures tell us, avoid the very _appearance_ of evil. (See [1
Thes. 5:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-thes/5.22?lang=eng#21).)

Dress modestly. Choose clothing that covers your body properly. Behave in a
courteous and polite way. Live the Word of Wisdom. Keep the Sabbath day holy.
Listen to good music. Do your best to be good.

Do well in your school work and strive to be a good student.

With help from your parents, begin your own library of favorite tapes, books,
and pictures which are available at Church distribution centers. Enjoy reading
each month in your home the _Friend_ magazine or the international magazines.

Love the country in which you live. Be a good citizen. Be patriotic. Fly your
country's flag on special holidays. Pray for your country's leaders.

Primary boys, plan and look forward to serving a full-time mission for the
Lord. Young girls, be prepared for missionary service if you are called. But
also, young girls, learn from your mothers the important homemaking skills you
will use in your own home.

Now I want to say something to you children who do not feel safe and who are
frightened or hurt and do not know what to do. Sometimes you may feel all
alone. You need to know that even when it seems that no one else cares, your
Heavenly Father does. He will always love you. He wants you to be protected
and safe. If you are not, please talk to someone who can help you--a parent, a
teacher, your bishop, or a friend. They will help you.

I am sure each of you has favorite stories from the scriptures. One of my
favorite stories is found in the seventeenth chapter of 3 Nephi in the Book of
Mormon. It tells about the visit of Jesus to the people on the American
continent after His resurrection. It tells about Jesus healing the sick and
teaching the people and praying to Heavenly Father for them.

Now, this is one of my favorite parts of that story:

"And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of praying unto the
Father, he arose; but so great was the joy of the multitude that they were
overcome.

"And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them arise.

"And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them: Blessed are ye because
of your faith. And now behold, my joy is full.

"And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bare record of
it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and
prayed unto the Father for them.

"And when he had done this he wept again;

"And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones.

"And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they
saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were
in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones
about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister
unto them." ([3 Ne.
17:18-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17.18-24?lang=eng#17).)

I promise you, dear children, that angels will minister unto you also. You may
not see them, but they will be there to help you, and you will feel of their
presence.

_Favored little ones were they,_

_Who towards him Jesus drew!_

_Who within his arms he took_

_Just as loving parents do,_

_Christ the Lord "Our living head."_

_This of little children said,_

_"Such shall of my kingdom be,_

_Suffer them to come to me."_

_Listen to the Savior's plea,_

_"Let the children come to me."_

Dear children, our Heavenly Father sent you to earth at this time because you
are some of His most valiant children. He knew there would be much wickedness
in the world today, and He knew you could be faithful and obedient.

Dear child, you are God's gift to your parents, and the gift your parents can
give God is to bring you back to Him sweet and pure and faithful.

He expects your parents and leaders to teach you, to walk beside you, and to
be shining examples to you so that you will know the way you should go. They
must spend time with you and love you and pray _with_ you and _for_ you.

Your leaders must call faithful men and women to teach you in Primary. We must
provide experiences for you early in your life that will help you know how to
live the gospel.

God bless the children of this Church. How I love you! How Heavenly Father
loves you! And may we, as your parents, teachers, and leaders, be _more_
childlike--more submissive, more meek, and more humble.

I close my message to you this day with the prayer that we may ever respond to
your plea as _you_ so sweetly sing:

_Teach me to walk in the light of his love;_

_Teach me to pray to my Father above;_

_Teach me to know of the things that are right;_

_Teach me, teach me to walk in the light._

And then, as your parents, _we_ sing to you:

_Come, little child, and together we'll learn_

_Of his commandments, that we may return_

_Home to his presence, to live in his sight--_

_Always, always to walk in the light._

And _together_ we sing:

_Father in Heaven, we thank thee this day_

_For loving guidance to show us the way._

_Grateful, we praise thee with songs of delight!_

_Gladly, gladly we'll walk in the light._

For this I fervently pray for the children of the Church, in the name of Jesus
Christ, amen.

