# Which Way Do You Face?

"Which way do you face?" President Boyd K. Packer surprised me with this
puzzling question while we were traveling together on my very first assignment
as a new Seventy. Without an explanation to put the question in context, I was
baffled. "A Seventy," he continued, "does not represent the people to the
prophet but the prophet to the people. Never forget which way you face!" It
was a powerful lesson.

Trying to please others before pleasing God is inverting the _first and second
great commandments_ (see [Matthew
22:37-39](/scriptures/nt/matt/22.37-39?lang=eng#36)). It is forgetting which
way we face. And yet, we have all made that mistake because of the fear of
men. In Isaiah the Lord warns us, "Fear ye not the reproach of men" ([Isaiah
51:7](/scriptures/ot/isa/51.7?lang=eng#6); see also [2 Nephi
8:7](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/8.7?lang=eng#6)). In Lehi's dream, this fear was
triggered by the _finger of scorn_ pointed from the great and spacious
building, causing many to forget which way they faced and to leave the tree
"ashamed" (see [1 Nephi 8:25-28](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/8.25-28?lang=eng#24)).

This peer _pressure_ tries to change a person's attitudes, if not behavior, by
making one feel guilty for giving offense. We seek respectful coexistence with
those who point fingers, but when this fear of men tempts us to condone sin,
it becomes a "snare" according to the book of Proverbs (see [Proverbs
29:25](/scriptures/ot/prov/29.25?lang=eng#24)). The snare may be cleverly
baited to appeal to our compassionate side to tolerate or even approve of
something that has been condemned by God. For the weak of faith, it can be a
major stumbling block. For example, some young missionaries carry this fear of
men into the mission field and fail to report the flagrant disobedience of a
companion to their mission president because they don't want to offend their
wayward companion. Decisions of character are made by remembering the right
order of the first and second great commandments (see [Matthew
22:37-39](/scriptures/nt/matt/22.37-39?lang=eng#36)). When these confused
missionaries realize they are accountable to God and not to their companion,
it should give them courage to do an _about-face._

At the youthful age of 22, even Joseph Smith forgot which way he faced when he
repeatedly importuned the Lord to allow Martin Harris to borrow the 116
manuscript pages. Perhaps Joseph wanted to show gratitude to Martin for his
support. We know that Joseph was extremely anxious for other eyewitnesses to
stand with him against the distressing falsehoods and lies being spread about
him.

Whatever Joseph's reasons were, or as justified as they may appear, the Lord
did not excuse them and sharply rebuked him: "How oft you have transgressed ...
and have gone on in the persuasions of men. For, behold, you should not have
_feared_ man more than God" ([D&amp;C 3:6-7](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/3.6-7?lang=eng#5); emphasis added). This poignant experience
helped Joseph remember, forever after, which way he faced.

When people try to _save face_ with men, they can unwittingly _lose face_ with
God. Thinking one can please God and at the same time condone the disobedience
of men isn't neutrality but duplicity, or being _two-faced_ or trying to
"serve two masters" ([Matthew 6:24](/scriptures/nt/matt/6.24?lang=eng#23); [3
Nephi 13:24](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/13.24?lang=eng#23)).

While it certainly takes courage to face perils, the true badge of courage is
overcoming the fear of men. For example, Daniel's prayers helped him face
lions, but what made him lionhearted was defying King Darius (see [Daniel
6](/scriptures/ot/dan/6?lang=eng)). That kind of courage is a gift of the
Spirit to the _God-fearing_ who have said their prayers. Queen Esther's
prayers also gave her that same courage to confront her husband, King
Ahasuerus, knowing that she risked her life in doing so (see [Esther
4:8-16](/scriptures/ot/esth/4.8-16?lang=eng#7)).

Courage is not just one of the cardinal virtues, but as C. S. Lewis observed:
"Courage is ... the form of every virtue at the testing point. ... Pilate was
merciful till it became risky."[1] King Herod was sorrowful at the request to
behead John the Baptist but wanted to please "them which sat with him at meat"
([Matthew 14:9](/scriptures/nt/matt/14.9?lang=eng#8)). King Noah was ready to
free Abinadi until peer pressure from his wicked priests caused him to waver
(see [Mosiah 17:11-12](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/17.11-12?lang=eng#10)). King
Saul disobeyed the word of the Lord by keeping the spoils of war because he
"feared the people, and obeyed their voice" ([1 Samuel
15:24](/scriptures/ot/1-sam/15.24?lang=eng#23)). To appease rebellious Israel
at the foot of Mount Sinai, Aaron crafted a golden calf, forgetting which way
he faced (see [Exodus 32](/scriptures/ot/ex/32?lang=eng)). Many of the New
Testament chief rulers "believed on [the Lord]; but because of the Pharisees
they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue: for
they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God" ([John
12:42-43](/scriptures/nt/john/12.42-43?lang=eng#41)). The scriptures are full
of such examples.

Now listen to some inspiring examples:

  * First, Mormon: "Behold, I speak with boldness, having authority from God; and I _fear not_ what man can do; for perfect love casteth out all fear" ([Moroni 8:16](/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.16?lang=eng#15); emphasis added). 
  * Nephi: "Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God and unto those who are not of the world" ([1 Nephi 6:5](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/6.5?lang=eng#4)). 
  * Captain Moroni: "Behold, I am Moroni, your chief captain. I seek not for power, but to pull it down. I seek not for honor of the world, but for the glory of my God, and the freedom and welfare of my country" ([Alma 60:36](/scriptures/bofm/alma/60.36?lang=eng#35)). 

Moroni had such great courage in remembering which way he faced that it was
said of him, "If all men had been, and were, and ever would be, like unto
Moroni, behold, the very powers of hell would have been shaken forever; yea,
the devil would never have power over the hearts of the children of men"
([Alma 48:17](/scriptures/bofm/alma/48.17?lang=eng#16)).

Prophets through the ages have always come under attack by the finger of
scorn. Why? According to the scriptures, it is because "the guilty taketh the
truth to be hard, for it cutteth them to the very center" ([1 Nephi
16:2](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/16.2?lang=eng#1)), or as President Harold B. Lee
observed, "The hit bird flutters!"[2] Their scornful reaction is, in reality,
guilt trying to reassure itself, just as with Korihor, who finally admitted,
"I always knew that there was a God" ([Alma
30:52](/scriptures/bofm/alma/30.52?lang=eng#51)). Korihor was so convincing in
his deception that he came to believe his own lie (see [Alma
30:53](/scriptures/bofm/alma/30.53?lang=eng#52)).

The scornful often accuse prophets of not living in the 21st century or of
being bigoted. They attempt to persuade or even pressure the Church into
lowering God's standards to the level of their own inappropriate behavior,
which in the words of Elder Neal A. Maxwell, will "develop self-contentment
instead of seeking self-improvement"[3] and repentance. Lowering the Lord's
standards to the level of a society's inappropriate behavior is--apostasy.
Many of the churches among the Nephites two centuries after the Savior's visit
to them began to "dumb down" the doctrine, borrowing a phrase from Elder
Holland.[4]

As you listen to this passage from 4 Nephi, look for parallels in our day:
"And it came to pass that when two hundred and ten years had passed away there
were many churches in the land; yea, there were many churches which professed
to know the Christ, and yet they did deny the more parts of his gospel,
insomuch that they did receive all manner of wickedness, and did administer
that which was sacred unto him to whom it had been forbidden because of
unworthiness" ([4 Nephi 1:27](/scriptures/bofm/4-ne/1.27?lang=eng#26)).

Deja vu in the latter days! Some members don't realize they are falling into
the same snare when they lobby for acceptance of local or ethnic "tradition[s]
of their fathers" ([D&amp;C 93:39](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/93.39?lang=eng#38)) that are not in harmony with the gospel
culture. Still others, self-deceived and in self-denial, plead or demand that
bishops lower the standard on temple recommends, school endorsements, or
missionary applications. It isn't easy being a bishop under that kind of
pressure. However, like the Savior who cleansed the temple to defend its
sanctity (see [John 2:15-16](/scriptures/nt/john/2.15-16?lang=eng#14)),
bishops today are called upon to boldly defend the temple standard. It was the
Savior who said, "I will manifest myself to my people in mercy ... if my people
will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house" ([D&amp;C
110:7-8](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.7-8?lang=eng#6)).

The Savior, our great Exemplar, always faced His Father. He loved and served
His fellowmen but said, "I receive not honour from men" ([John
5:41](/scriptures/nt/john/5.41?lang=eng#40)). He wanted those He taught to
follow Him, but He did not court their favor. When He performed an act of
charity, such as healing the sick, the gift often came with the request to
"tell no man" ([Matthew 8:4](/scriptures/nt/matt/8.4?lang=eng#3); [Mark
7:36](/scriptures/nt/mark/7.36?lang=eng#35); [Luke
5:14](/scriptures/nt/luke/5.14?lang=eng#13);
[8:56](/scriptures/nt/luke/8.56?lang=eng#55)). In part, this was to avoid the
very fame which followed Him in spite of His efforts to eschew it (see
[Matthew 4:24](/scriptures/nt/matt/4.24?lang=eng#23)). He condemned the
Pharisees for doing good works only to be seen of men (see [Matthew
6:5](/scriptures/nt/matt/6.5?lang=eng#4)).

The Savior, the only perfect being who ever lived, was the most fearless. In
His life, He was confronted by scores of accusers but never yielded to their
finger of scorn. He is the only person who never once forgot which way He
faced: "I do _always_ those things that please [the Father]" ([John
8:29](/scriptures/nt/john/8.29?lang=eng#28); emphasis added), and "I seek not
mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me" ([John
5:30](/scriptures/nt/john/5.30?lang=eng#29)).

Between [3 Nephi chapter 11](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11?lang=eng) and [3 Nephi
chapter 28](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/28?lang=eng), the Savior used the title
_Father_ at least 150 times, making it very clear to the Nephites that He was
there representing His Father. And from John chapters 14 through 17, the
Savior refers to the Father at least 50 times. In every way possible, He was
His Father's perfect disciple. He was so perfect in representing His Father
that to know the Savior was also to know the Father. To see the Son was to see
the Father (see [John 14:9](/scriptures/nt/john/14.9?lang=eng#8)). To hear the
Son was to hear the Father (see [John
5:36](/scriptures/nt/john/5.36?lang=eng#35)). He had, in essence, become
indistinguishable from His Father. His Father and He were one (see [John
17:21-22](/scriptures/nt/john/17.21-22?lang=eng#20)). He flawlessly knew which
way He faced.

May His inspiring example strengthen us against the pitfalls of flattery from
without or of conceit from within. May it give us courage to never cower or
fawn at the feet of intimidation. May it inspire us to go about doing good as
anonymously as possible and not "aspire to the honors of men" ([D&amp;C
121:35](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.35?lang=eng#34)). And may His
incomparable example help us always remember _which_ is "the first and great
commandment" ([Matthew 22:38](/scriptures/nt/matt/22.38?lang=eng#37)). When
others demand approval in defiance of God's commandments, may we always
remember whose disciples we are, and which way we face, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. C. S. Lewis, _The Screwtape Letters,_ rev. ed. (1982), 137-38.

  2. Harold B. Lee, in _Mine Errand from the Lord: Selections from the Sermons and Writings of Boyd K. Packer_ (2008), 356.

  3. Neal A. Maxwell, "Repentance," _Ensign,_ Nov. 1991, 32.

  4. Jeffrey R. Holland, "The Call to Be Christlike," _Ensign,_ June 2014, 33; _Liahona,_ June 2014, 35.

