# “Stand Ye in Holy Places”

I shall never forget one night almost three decades ago. My bride, Patricia,
and I had been married for two years. We lived in a small duplex on Oahu's
north shore. I was an army infantry officer, a platoon leader, assigned to a
unit at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii. Our brigade had been ordered to war in
Vietnam. My plane was scheduled for departure after midnight, and a good
Latter-day Saint friend had agreed to take me to the airfield at 11:00 P.M.

All through that long evening, Pat and I sat on the sofa in our tiny living
room with our fingers intertwined, watching the hands of the clock approach
the fateful hour and listening to the soft lapping of the surf against the
shore. The ticking of the clock seemed a metronome of mortality in painful
contrast to the muffled rushing of the eternal sea. At last the hour of
parting arrived. Inside the doorway to our little home, I clutched my bride to
my bosom and kissed her one last time, and then I was gone. As I closed the
door, I wondered if I had seen my sweetheart for the last time in mortality.
It was truly night.

My friend and I drove silently in the darkness through the sugarcane and
pineapple fields of Oahu. My heart felt as though it would break. Then as we
passed Schofield, an unseen infantry unit on night maneuvers fired a flare.
Its brilliance momentarily lit the inky darkness and seemed to ignite a
spiritual flame in the blackness that invested my soul. My thoughts were drawn
away from this saddest of days to the very happiest: back to that beautiful
December day when Pat and I had entered the holy temple and there were sealed
to each other, not just for this life only but for all eternity. I thought of
the eternal covenants we had made. Like the sunrise, it dawned on me that no
matter what happened in the uncertain future just ahead, Pat would always be
mine. When I reached the air base, I telephoned her. In the spirit of a
renewed hope and peace born of faith and understanding, we talked and laughed
softly before once more bidding each other good-bye. It was only midnight, but
for me the sun was already rising.

On another day in another place, however, the sun was setting on the mortal
ministry of the Messiah as he departed the temple at Jerusalem for the last
time. Climbing atop the Mount of Olives with his disciples, the Savior
prophesied the cataclysmic events that would precede the destruction of
Jerusalem and his second coming. He then issued this portentous admonition to
his disciples, ancient and modern: "Then you shall _stand in the holy place;_
whoso readeth let him understand" ([JS--M
1:12](/scriptures/pgp/js-m/1.12?lang=eng#11); emphasis added; see also [Matt.
24:15](/scriptures/nt/matt/24.15?lang=eng#14)). Latter-day revelations provide
understanding. They teach that in our day, amidst strife and catastrophe and
pestilence, there are two kingdoms locked in grim struggle for the souls of
men--Zion and Babylon. More than once they repeat the injunction to "stand in
holy places" for a refuge from these storms of latter-day life ([D&amp;C
45:32](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.32?lang=eng#31); see also [D&amp;C
87:8](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/87.8?lang=eng#7); [D&amp;C
101:16-23](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.16-23?lang=eng#15)). Prominent
among such holy places, and key to all the others, is the temple of the Lord.

The words _Zion_ and _temple_ belong in the same sentence together. In August
1833, as Saints attempted against much persecution to establish a geographic
Zion in Jackson County, Missouri, the Prophet Joseph Smith was counseled in
revelation to build a house unto the Lord "for the salvation of Zion"
([D&amp;C 97:12](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/97.12?lang=eng#11)). The temple
is the key to salvation, it said, because it is a place of thanksgiving, a
place of instruction, and a place of understanding "in all things" (see
[D&amp;C 97:12-14](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/97.12-14?lang=eng#11)). Then
comes this glorious promise: "Yea, and my presence shall be there, for I will
come into it, and all the pure in heart that shall come into it _shall see
God._ ... Therefore, ... let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion--THE PURE IN HEART;
therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn" ([D&amp;C
97:16, 21](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/97.16,21?lang=eng#15); emphasis added).
For Zion, the pure in heart, the temple holds the key that unlocks holy places
--places of rejoicing--while those in Babylon's byways are condemned to mourn.

I was to bid my dear wife good-bye twice more during the tumultuous years of
the Vietnam War. In a later year we would stand together and say farewell as a
five-year-old son slipped from this world across the veiled threshold into the
next; and, later still, we would welcome a handicapped daughter into
mortality. Life has brought us its challenges, as it does to all. But through
the years I have come to appreciate the wisdom of a dear friend, a patriarch
and temple sealer. "Lance," he said, "the joy I receive is more than just
being in the temple. _The temple is in me!_ And when I leave the temple, its
peace goes with me."

So it can be for every righteous soul. When we visit the temple as often as
distance and individual circumstance permit, _the temple will be in us._ Then,
despite the buffetings of life, we will always be in a holy place. The house
of the Lord beckons to all who would be numbered with Zion: "Come ye, and let
us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths" ([Isa.
2:3](/scriptures/ot/isa/2.3?lang=eng#2)).

The day of the San Diego California Temple dedication attended by our stake, I
came into the celestial room a few minutes early, accompanied by my daughter
and one of my sons. My dear Pat was directing the choir. As though joined by
angels, they rehearsed these magnificent words from a beloved Latter-day Saint
hymn--a hymn we sang only moments ago:

_High on the mountain top_

_A banner is unfurled._

_Ye nations, now look up;_

_It waves to all the world._

_In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land,_

_On Zion's mount behold it stand!_

Pat's eyes met mine. For a brief moment I was transported back across the
years, past the challenges and the heartaches to that wonderful day when
together we had entered the house of the Lord. I drew my children close. In
that instant a wonderful, celestial feeling swelled my breast. I _knew_ I was
in a holy place. I felt a peace as I had on that dark night so many years ago
--and again I rejoiced. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

