# Search the Scriptures

When we left our heavenly home to take this trip through mortality, we
received instructions and divine directions that would assist us in returning
home safely to our Heavenly Father. These directions were clearly communicated
to prepare us for our earthly experiences.

Our Heavenly Father continues to communicate with us through revelation. These
revelations are communications of divine directions. They may come to us
personally or through the voice of the Lord's chosen servants, the prophets,
seers, and revelators. Those revelations received by prophets are given to us
in the form of scripture or by the voice of the living prophets. Thus the
scriptures become a road map, a set of divine directions to assist us on our
journey through mortality and our return trip home. Just as a road map not
read, the scriptures not searched are of little value to us in providing
directions.

Are we studying our divine directions daily? When was the last time we checked
our celestial compass to see if we are still on course? The road to the
celestial kingdom is one way. When we fail to search the scriptures, we may
find ourselves going the wrong way on a one-way highway.

## Scriptures

The Savior gave us a clear concept of what constitutes scripture. Speaking of
the early elders in this dispensation, he said: "And whatsoever they shall
speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will
of the Lord." ([D&amp;C 68:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/68.4?lang=eng#3).)

Scriptures reveal the divine desires of the Lord in our behalf. Each of us
should have a burning desire to search the scriptures diligently and daily to
seek the will of the Lord in our life. For some it may be necessary to develop
the discipline to search the scriptures daily.

## Feelings

How do we feel about the scriptures? Do we have the same love for the
scriptures that was expressed by Nephi when he said: "For my soul delighteth
in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them. ...

"Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth
continually upon the things which I have seen and heard." ([2 Ne.
4:15-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/4.15-16?lang=eng#14).)

We should show great respect and reverence for these sacred revelations. We
should have feelings of gratitude for those who recorded and preserved these
revelations for our research.

Jacob, one of the four major writers of the Book of Mormon, expressed concerns
that he could write but a small portion of his words on the plates. He
recorded that he would be limited in his writing "because of the difficulty of
engraving our words upon plates." ([Jacob
4:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.1?lang=eng#0).) Even with the
difficulty of the task, Jacob felt it important to use a portion of the plates
to express his tender feelings as to how he hoped that we would receive the
words he had written. He said: "And we labor diligently to engraven these
words upon plates, hoping that our beloved brethren and our children will
receive them with thankful hearts, and look upon them that they may learn with
joy and not with sorrow, neither with contemp." ([Jacob
4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.3?lang=eng#2).)

Some have suffered death to make it possible for us to have the scriptures
today. Historically, the scriptures in the Bible were reserved for the clergy,
with the reading of them by others being denounced. At times laws even
prohibited the public or private reading of them. What a marvelous blessing we
have to not only possess the most complete collection of scripture in history
but also to have the freedom to search and to use them!

## Purpose

One of the most sacred purposes for which the scriptures were written was to
make it possible for all to know Christ. The scriptures teach and testify of
Jesus Christ. They teach us much that we need to know and to do to return to
the presence of the Savior. John was specific in giving the purpose of the
scriptures when he said: "But these [things] are written, that ye might
believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might
have life through his name." ([John
20:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/20.31?lang=eng#30).)

Nephi bore witness as to the reason he had recorded the revelations when he
said: "And I, Nephi, have written these things unto my people, that perhaps I
might persuade them that they would remember the Lord their Redeemer." ([1 Ne.
19:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/19.18?lang=eng#17).)

## Importance

The scriptures should be of the greatest importance in our lives. Our
spiritual survival during the stresses of our society and the temptations of
our time is greatly dependent upon the strength that we will receive from
searching the scriptures and listening to the words of the prophets, seers,
and revelators.

People as well as nations perish without scriptures. The scriptures are
spiritual food for our spirit, which is just as important as physical food for
our body. It was so important for Lehi to have the scriptures and records
which were engraven on the brass plates that the Lord commanded Nephi to slay
Laban in order to obtain them. The Lord knew of their importance for the
spiritual nourishment of Lehi and his descendants. He explained: "It is better
that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in
unbelief." ([1 Ne.
4:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/4.13?lang=eng#12).)

In contrast, the Mulekites, who migrated to the American continent shortly
after Lehi and his family left Jerusalem, failed to bring with them any sacred
scriptures or records. Omni recorded the condition of a nation without
scriptures:

"They had had many wars and serious contentions, and had fallen by the sword
from time to time; and their language had become corrupted; and they had
brought no records with them; and they denied the being of their Creator."
([Omni 1:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/omni/1.17?lang=eng#16).)

Even more serious than their continuous contentions and wars and the
corruption of their language was the tragedy that they did not know the
Savior. The pattern is the same for individuals as it is for nations. Without
searching the scriptures, they cease to know the Savior.

## Study

The Savior provided counsel as to the way we should study scripture. He said:
"And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let
him search them." ([3 Ne.
10:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/10.14?lang=eng#13).) The
Prophet Joseph Smith counseled:

"Search the scriptures--search the revelations ... and ask your Heavenly Father,
in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, to manifest the truth unto you, and if
you do it with an eye single to His glory nothing doubting, He will answer you
by the power of His Holy Spirit. You will then know for yourselves and not for
another. You will not then be dependent on man for the knowledge of God; nor
will there be any room for speculation." (_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith,_ pp. 11-12.)

It is not enough to read the scriptures. Random reading results in reduced
retention. We must search for specifics. We must seek for truth and increased
understanding of its application in our lives.

If we are to be effective in our study of the scriptures, we must prepare for
it to be a special spiritual experience. The following suggestions may be
helpful.

  1. Schedule

  2. Pray

  3. Search

  4. Ponder

  5. Relate

  6. Apply

## Conclusion

The scriptures are priceless possessions. If we search the scriptures, seeking
for the plain and precious principles, the Lord will reveal his will unto us
and we will be richly blessed. If we research the revelations and respond
correctly to them, we will return home safely to Heavenly Father. To this I so
testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.

