# “Blessed Are the Peacemakers”

Among the most memorable of all our family activities have been trips to the
Holy Land. For us, visits to that part of the world have been life changing.
But now the Holy Land is a cauldron of turmoil and off-limits to those who
would like to go there for spiritual enrichment. Virtually all parts of the
world are plagued by acts of terror previously unknown. Confusion comes to
many who pray for peace but fearfully face this foe of terror.

## Peace versus Contention

The perilous times in which we live have been prophesied in the scriptures.
Our day has been foreseen as one with "fires, and tempests, and vapors of
smoke in foreign lands; ... wars, rumors of wars, and earthquakes in divers
places ... great pollutions upon the face of the earth; ... and all manner of
abominations." [1]

That prophecy echoes an earlier scriptural account of the second generation of
human life [2]  upon the earth: "In those days Satan had great dominion among
men, and raged in their hearts; and from thenceforth came wars and bloodshed;
and a man's hand was against his own brother, in ... seeking for power." [3]
From the days of Cain and Abel, [4]  Esau and Jacob, [5]  and Joseph who was
sold into Egypt, [6]  the flames of hostility have been fueled by family
feuding.

Hatred among brothers and neighbors has now reduced sacred cities to sites of
sorrow. When I think of the plight of such places, I am reminded of an ancient
proverb: "Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away
wrath." [7]

## Doctrinal Direction

Scripture sheds light on both the cause of and the cure for the sickness of
human hatred: "The natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the fall
of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of
the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through
the atonement of Christ." [8]

Peace can prevail only when that natural inclination to fight is superseded by
self-determination to live on a loftier level. Coming unto Jesus Christ as the
"Prince of Peace" [9]  is the pathway to peace on earth and goodwill among
men. [10]  He made a promise to us: "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they
shall be called the children of God." [11]

Jesus taught people how to live with one another. He declared the two great
commandments: first, to "love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with
all thy soul, and with all thy mind," [12]  and the second, to "love thy
neighbour as thyself." [13]

Then He added, "Love your enemies, [and] bless them that curse you." [14]

He taught the Golden Rule: "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do
to you, do ye even so to them." [15]  This principle is found in nearly every
major religion. Others such as Confucius and Aristotle have also taught it.
[16]  After all, the gospel did not begin with the birth of the Babe in
Bethlehem. It is everlasting. It was proclaimed in the beginning to Adam and
Eve. Portions of the gospel have been preserved in many cultures. Even heathen
mythologies have been enriched by fragments of truth from earlier
dispensations.

Wherever it is found and however it is expressed, the Golden Rule encompasses
the moral code of the kingdom of God. It forbids interference by one with the
rights of another. It is equally binding upon nations, associations, and
individuals. With compassion and forbearance, it replaces the retaliatory
reactions of "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth." [17]  If we were to
stay on that old and unproductive path, we would be but blind and toothless.
[18]

This concept of treating others as one would like to be treated is easy to
understand. And it acknowledges the precious nature of each of God's sons and
daughters. [19]  Scripture asks parents to teach children not to "fight and
quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin."
Instead, we "teach them to love one another, and to serve one another." [20]

Jesus taught the importance of reconciliation and resolution of dispute on a
personal basis. He said:

"Whosoever is angry with his brother ... shall be in danger of the judgment. ...

"Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy
brother hath ought against thee;

"Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to
thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift." [21]

The Master Teacher taught us to "forgive, if ye have ought against any: that
your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.

"But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive
your trespasses." [22]

Jesus declared that a day of judgment would come. All individuals will give an
account of their mortal lives and of how they have treated other people. [23]

## Civic Obligations

The commandments to love God and neighbor are interrelated. We cannot fully
love God without loving our neighbor. We cannot fully love our neighbor
without loving God. Men really are brothers because God really is our Father.
Nevertheless, scriptures are studded with stories of contention and combat.
They strongly condemn wars of aggression but sustain obligations of citizens
to defend their families and their freedoms. [24]  Because "we believe in
being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying,
honoring, and sustaining the law," [25]  members of this Church will be called
into military service of many nations. "We believe that governments were
instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable
for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering
them, for the good and safety of society." [26]

During the Second World War, when members of the Church were forced to fight
on opposing sides, the First Presidency affirmed that "the state is
responsible for the civil control of its citizens or subjects, for their
political welfare, and for the carrying forward of political policies,
domestic and foreign. ... But the Church itself, as such, has no responsibility
for these policies, [other] than urging its members fully to render ... loyalty
to their country." [27]

## Peace Is Possible

Because of the long history of hostility upon the earth, many feel that peace
is beyond hope. I disagree. Peace is possible. We can learn to love our fellow
human beings throughout the world. Whether they be Jewish, Islamic, or fellow
Christians, whether Hindu, Buddhist, or other, we can live together with
mutual admiration and respect, without forsaking our religious convictions.
Things we have in common are greater than are our differences. Peace is a
prime priority that pleads for our pursuit. Old Testament prophets held out
hope and so should we. The Psalmist said, "God is our refuge and strength, a
very present help in trouble." [28]  "He maketh wars to cease unto the end of
the earth." [29]

Father Abraham was uniquely called a "Friend of God." [30]  Peace was one of
Abraham's highest priorities. He sought to be a "prince of peace." [31]  His
influence could loom large in our present pursuit of peace. His sons, Ishmael
and Isaac, though born of different mothers, overcame their differences when
engaged in a common cause. After their father died, they worked together to
bury the mortal remains of their exalted father. [32]  Their descendants could
well follow that pattern.

Abraham's posterity has a divinely decreed potential. The Lord declared that
Ishmael would become a great nation [33]  and that the seed of Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob would bless all the nations of the earth. [34]

So descendants of Abraham--entrusted with great promises of infinite influence
--are in a pivotal position to emerge as peacemakers. Chosen by the Almighty,
they can direct their powerful potential toward peace.

Resolution of present political problems will require much patience and
negotiation. The process would be enhanced greatly if pursued prayerfully.

Isaiah prophesied of hope for our day. Speaking of the gathering of Israel and
the Restoration of the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith, Isaiah wrote:

"It shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the
second time to recover the remnant of his people, ...

"And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the
outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four
corners of the earth." [35]

These prophecies of hope could materialize if leaders and citizens of nations
would apply the teachings of Jesus Christ. Ours could then be an age of
unparalleled peace and progress. Barbarism of the past would be buried. War
with its horrors would be relegated to the realm of maudlin memory. Aims of
nations would be mutually supportive. Peacemakers could lead in the art of
arbitration, give relief to the needy, and bring hope to those who fear. Of
such patriots, future generations would shout praises, and our Eternal God
would pass judgments of glory.

The hope of the world is the Prince of Peace--our Creator, Savior, Jehovah,
and Judge. He offers us the good life, the abundant life, and eternal life.
Peaceful--even prosperous--living can come to those who abide His precepts
[36]  and follow His pathway to peace. This I declare to all the world.

## Church Members

Now, as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, what does
the Lord expect of us? As a Church, we must "renounce war and proclaim peace."
[37]  As individuals, we should "follow after the things which make for
peace." [38]  We should be personal peacemakers. We should live peacefully--as
couples, families, and neighbors. We should live by the Golden Rule. We have
writings of the descendants of Judah as now merged with writings of the
descendants of Ephraim. [39]  We should employ them and expand our circle of
love to embrace the whole human family. We should bring divine love and
revealed doctrines of restored religion to our neighbors and friends. We
should serve them according to our abilities and opportunities. We should keep
our principles on a high level and stand for the right. We should continue to
gather scattered Israel from the four corners of the earth and offer the
ordinances and covenants that seal families together forever. These blessings
we are to bring to people of all nations.

By so living, our Master will bless us. He provided this promise: "Fear thou
not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen
thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my
righteousness." [40]

Ours is His supernal cause. Ours is the cause of eternal glory for all
humankind. And as peacemakers, we shall be called the children of God. I so
testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.   [Morm. 8:29-31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/8.29-31?lang=eng#28); see also [2 Tim. 3:1-7, 12-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/3.1-7%2C12-13?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C 45:26-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.26-27?lang=eng#25).

  2.  Dating back to the time of Seth, son of Adam and Eve.

  3.   [Moses 6:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.15?lang=eng#14).

  4.  See [Gen. 4:8-10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/4.8-10?lang=eng#7).

  5.  See [Gen. 27:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/27.41?lang=eng#40).

  6.  See [Gen. 37:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/37.28?lang=eng#27).

  7.   [Prov. 29:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/29.8?lang=eng#7).

  8.   [Mosiah 3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18).

  9.   [Isa. 9:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/9.6?lang=eng#5).

  10.  See [Luke 2:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/2.14?lang=eng#13).

  11.   [Matt. 5:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.9?lang=eng#8); see also [3 Ne. 12:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.9?lang=eng#8); Joseph Smith Translation, Matt. 5:11.

  12.   [Matt. 22:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/22.37?lang=eng#36).

  13.   [Matt. 22:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/22.39?lang=eng#38); see also [Luke 10:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/10.27?lang=eng#26); [D&amp;C 59:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.5-6?lang=eng#4).

  14.   [Matt. 5:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.44?lang=eng#43).

  15.   [Matt. 7:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.12?lang=eng#11); see also [Luke 6:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/6.31?lang=eng#30); [3 Ne. 14:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/14.12?lang=eng#11).

  16.  See B. H. Roberts, _New Witnesses for God,_ 3 vols. (1909-11), 3:492-93.

  17.   [Matt. 5:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.38?lang=eng#37); see also [Ex. 21:24-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/21.24-27?lang=eng#23); [Lev. 24:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/24.20?lang=eng#19).

  18.  See Joseph Stein, _Fiddler on the Roof_ (1964), 142.

  19.  See [Matt. 25:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.40?lang=eng#39); [D&amp;C 18:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.10?lang=eng#9).

  20.   [Mosiah 4:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.14-15?lang=eng#13).

  21.   [Matt. 5:22-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.22-24?lang=eng#21); see also [3 Ne. 12:22-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.22-24?lang=eng#21); Joseph Smith Translation, Matt. 5:24-26.

  22.   [Mark 11:25-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/11.25-26?lang=eng#24); see also Joseph Smith Translation, Mark 11:27-28.

  23.  See [Matt. 12:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/12.36?lang=eng#35); [Rom. 14:10-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/14.10-12?lang=eng#9); [1 Jn. 4:16-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-jn/4.16-21?lang=eng#15); [Alma 41:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.3?lang=eng#2); [3 Ne. 27:16-22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.16-22?lang=eng#15).

  24.  See [Alma 43:45-47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/43.45-47?lang=eng#44); [Alma 46:11-12, 19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/46.11-12%2C19-20?lang=eng#10); [Alma 48:11-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/48.11-16?lang=eng#10).

  25.   [A of F 1:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.12?lang=eng#11).

  26.   [D&amp;C 134:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/134.1?lang=eng#0).

  27.  In James R. Clark, comp. _Messages of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, _6 vols. (1965-75), 6:155-56.

  28.   [Ps. 46:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/46.1?lang=eng#0).

  29.   [Ps. 46:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/46.9?lang=eng#8).

  30.   [James 2:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/2.23?lang=eng#22); see also [2 Chr. 20:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-chr/20.7?lang=eng#6); [Isa. 41:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/41.8?lang=eng#7). Long ago our Creator made a covenant with Abraham which was to apply to "a thousand generations" ([Deut. 7:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/7.9?lang=eng#8); see also [1 Chr. 16:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-chr/16.15?lang=eng#14); [Ps. 105:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/105.8?lang=eng#7)). It is to be fulfilled in the latter days (see [1 Ne. 15:13, 18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.13%2C18?lang=eng#12); [D&amp;C 124:58](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.58?lang=eng#57); [D&amp;C 132:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.30?lang=eng#29)).

  31.   [Abr. 1:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/1.2?lang=eng#1).

  32.  See [Gen. 25:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/25.9?lang=eng#8). Abraham's original name, Abram, means "exalted father" (see Bible Dictionary, "Abraham," 601).

  33.  See [Gen. 21:13, 18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/21.13%2C18?lang=eng#12).

  34.  See [Gen. 17:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/17.19?lang=eng#18); [Gen. 21:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/21.12?lang=eng#11); [Gen. 22:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/22.18?lang=eng#17); [Gen. 28:13-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/28.13-14?lang=eng#12); [Gen. 35:9-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/35.9-12?lang=eng#8); [Ex. 32:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/32.13?lang=eng#12); [Deut. 9:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/9.5?lang=eng#4); [Abr. 2:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.11?lang=eng#10); Joseph Smith Translation, Gen. 17:25.

  35.   [Isa. 11:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/11.11-12?lang=eng#10); see also [Rom. 15:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/15.12?lang=eng#11).

  36.  See [2 Chr. 20:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/2-chr/20.20?lang=eng#19); [Matt. 6:24-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/6.24-33?lang=eng#23); [John 10:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/10.10?lang=eng#9); [1 Ne. 2:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/2.20?lang=eng#19); [1 Ne. 4:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/4.14?lang=eng#13); [2 Ne. 1:9, 20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.9%2C20?lang=eng#8); [2 Ne. 4:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/4.4?lang=eng#3); [Jarom 1:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jarom/1.9?lang=eng#8); [Mosiah 1:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/1.7?lang=eng#6); [Mosiah 2:22, 31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.22%2C31?lang=eng#21); [Alma 9:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/9.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma 36:1, 30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.1%2C30?lang=eng#0); [Alma 37:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma 38:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.1?lang=eng#0); [Alma 48:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/48.25?lang=eng#24); [Alma 50:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/50.20?lang=eng#19); [Hel. 3:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/3.20?lang=eng#19); [D&amp;C 64:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.34?lang=eng#33).

  37.   [D&amp;C 98:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/98.16?lang=eng#15).

  38.   [Rom. 14:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/14.19?lang=eng#18).

  39.  See [Ezek. 37:16-19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezek/37.16-19?lang=eng#15); [2 Ne. 3:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.12?lang=eng#11).

  40.   [Isa. 41:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/41.10?lang=eng#9).

