# What Manner of Men and Women Ought Ye to Be?

"To be, or not to be" is actually a very good question.[1] The Savior posed
the question in a far more profound way, making it a vital doctrinal question
for each of us: "What manner of men [and women] ought ye _to be_? Verily I say
unto you, even as _I am_" ([3 Nephi
27:27](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26); emphasis added). The first-
person present tense of the verb _be_ is _I Am._ He invites us to take upon us
His name and His nature.

To become as He _is,_ we must also _do_ the things He _did:_ "Verily, verily,
I say unto you, this is my gospel; and ye know the things that ye must _do_ in
my church; for the works which ye have seen me _do_ that shall ye also _do_"
([3 Nephi 27:21](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.21?lang=eng#20); emphasis added).

To _be_ and to _do_ are inseparable. As interdependent doctrines they
reinforce and promote each other. Faith inspires one to pray, for example, and
prayer in turn strengthens one's faith.

The Savior often denounced those who _did_ without _being_--calling them
hypocrites: "This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far
from me" ([Mark 7:6](/scriptures/nt/mark/7.6?lang=eng#5)). _To do_ without _to
be_ is hypocrisy, or feigning to be what one is not--a pretender.

Conversely, _to be_ without _to do _is void, as in "faith, if it hath not
works, _is dead,_ being alone" ([James
2:17](/scriptures/nt/james/2.17?lang=eng#16); emphasis added). _Be_ without
_do_ really isn't _being_--it is self-deception, believing oneself to be good
merely because one's intentions are good.

_Do_ without _be_--hypocrisy--portrays a false image to others, while _be_
without _do_ portrays a false image to oneself.

The Savior chastised the scribes and Pharisees for their hypocrisy: "Woe unto
you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe"--something they
_did_--"of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters
of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith" ([Matthew
23:23](/scriptures/nt/matt/23.23?lang=eng#22)). Or in other words, they failed
_to be_ what they should _have been._

While He recognized the importance of _do,_ the Savior identified _be _as a
"weightier matter." The greater importance of _being_ is illustrated in the
following examples:

  * Entering the waters of baptism is something we _do._ The _be_ that must precede it is faith in Jesus Christ and a mighty change of heart. 
  * Partaking of the sacrament is something we _do. Being_ worthy to partake of the sacrament is a weightier and much more important matter. 
  * Ordination to the priesthood is an act, or _do._ The weightier matter, however, is power in the priesthood, which is based "upon the principles of righteousness" ([D&amp;C 121:36](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.36?lang=eng#35)), or_ be._

Many of us create _to do_ lists to remind us of things we want to accomplish.
But people rarely have _to be_ lists. Why? _To do_'s are activities or events
that can be checked off the list when _done. To be,_ however, is never done.
You can't earn checkmarks with _to be_'s. I can take my wife out for a lovely
evening this Friday, which is a _to do._ But _being _a good husband is not an
event; it needs _to be_ part of my nature--my character, or who I am.

Or as a parent, when can I check a child off my list as _done_? We are never
done _being_ good parents. And to be good parents, one of the most important
things we can teach our children is how _to be_ more like the Savior.

Christlike_ to be_'s cannot be seen, but they are the motivating force behind
what we _do,_ which can be seen. When parents help a child learn to walk, for
example, we see parents _doing _things like steadying and praising their
child. These _do_'s reveal the unseen love in their hearts and the unseen
faith and hope in their child's potential. Day after day their efforts
continue--evidence of the unseen _be_'s of patience and diligence.

Because _be_ begets _do_ and is the motive behind _do,_ teaching _be_ will
improve behavior more effectively than focusing on _do_ will improve behavior.

When children misbehave, let's say when they quarrel with each other, we often
misdirect our discipline on what they _did,_ or the quarreling we observed.
But the _do_--their behavior--is only a symptom of the unseen motive in their
hearts. We might ask ourselves, "What attributes, if understood by the child,
would correct this behavior in the future? Being patient and forgiving when
annoyed? Loving and being a peacemaker? Taking personal responsibility for
one's actions and not blaming?"

How do parents teach these attributes to their children? We will never have a
greater opportunity to teach and show Christlike attributes to our children
than in the way we discipline them. _Discipline_ comes from the same root word
as _disciple_ and implies patience and teaching on our part. It should not be
done in anger. We can and should discipline the way that [Doctrine and
Covenants 121](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121?lang=eng) teaches us: "by
persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love
unfeigned; by kindness and pure knowledge" ([verses 41-42](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.41-42?lang=eng#40)). These are all Christlike _be_'s that
should be a part of who we, as parents and disciples of Christ, _are._

Through discipline the child learns of consequences. In such moments it is
helpful to turn negatives into positives. If the child confesses to a wrong,
praise the courage it took to confess. Ask the child what he or she learned
from the mistake or misdeed, which gives you, and more important, the Spirit
an opportunity to touch and teach the child. When we teach children doctrine
by the Spirit, that doctrine has the power to change their very nature--_be_--
over time.

Alma discovered this same principle, that "the preaching of the word had a
great tendency to lead the people _to do_ that which was just--yea, it had had
more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword" ([Alma
31:5](/scriptures/bofm/alma/31.5?lang=eng#4); emphasis added). Why? Because
the sword focused only on punishing behavior--or _do_--while preaching the
word changed people's very nature--who they _were _or could_ become._

A sweet and obedient child will enroll a father or mother only in Parenting
101. If you are blessed with a child who tests your patience to the nth
degree, you will be enrolled in Parenting 505. Rather than wonder what you
might have done wrong in the premortal life to be so deserving, you might
consider the more challenging child a blessing and opportunity to become more
godlike yourself. With which child will your patience, long-suffering, and
other Christlike virtues most likely be tested, developed, and refined? Could
it be possible that you need this child as much as this child needs you?

We have all heard the advice to condemn the sin and not the sinner. Likewise,
when our children misbehave, we must be careful not to say things that would
cause them to believe that what they _did_ wrong is who they _are._ "Never let
failure progress from an action to an identity," with its attendant labels
like "stupid," "slow," "lazy," or "clumsy."[2] Our children are God's
children. That is their true identity and potential. His very plan is to help
His children overcome mistakes and misdeeds and to progress to become as He
_is._ Disappointing behavior, therefore, should be considered as something
temporary, not permanent--an act, not an identity.

We need to be careful, therefore, about using permanent phrases such as "You
always ..." or "You never ..." when disciplining. Take care with phrases such as
"You never consider my feelings" or "Why do you always make us wait?" Phrases
like these make actions appear as an identity and can adversely influence the
child's self-perception and self-worth.

Identity confusion can also occur when we ask children what they want to _be_
when they grow up, as if what a person _does_ for a living is who he or she
_is._ Neither professions nor possessions should define identity or self-
worth. The Savior, for example, was a humble carpenter, but that hardly
defined His life.

In helping children discover who they are and helping strengthen their self-
worth, we can appropriately compliment their achievement or behavior--the
_do._ But it would be even wiser to focus our primary praise on their
character and beliefs--who they _are._

In a game of sports, a wise way to compliment our children's performance--_do_
--would be through the point of view of _be_--like their energy, perseverance,
poise in the face of adversity, etc.--thus complimenting both _be_ and _do._

When we ask children to _do_ chores, we can also look for ways to compliment
them on _being,_ such as, "It makes me so happy when you do your chores with a
willing heart."

When children receive a report card from school, we can praise them for their
good grades, but it may be of greater lasting benefit to praise them for their
_diligence: _"You turned in every assignment. You are one who knows how to
tackle and finish difficult things. I am proud of you."

During family scripture time, look for and discuss examples of attributes
discovered in your reading that day. Because Christlike attributes are gifts
from God and cannot be developed without His help,[3] in family and personal
prayers, pray for those gifts.

At the dinner table, occasionally talk about attributes, especially those you
discovered in the scriptures earlier that morning. "In what way were you a
good friend today? In what way did you show compassion? How did faith help you
face today's challenges? In what way were you dependable? honest? generous?
humble?" There are scores of attributes in the scriptures that need to be
taught and learned.

The most important way to teach _to be_ is _to be_ the kind of parents to our
children that our Father in Heaven is to us. He is the one perfect parent, and
He has shared with us His parenting manual--the scriptures.

My remarks today have been addressed primarily to parents, but the principles
apply to everyone. May your efforts to develop Christlike attributes be
successful so that His image may be engraven in your countenance and His
attributes manifest in your behavior. Then, when your children or others feel
of your love and see your behavior, it will remind them of the Savior and draw
them to Him is my prayer and testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. William Shakespeare, _Hamlet, Prince of Denmark,_ act 3, scene 1, line 56.

  2. Carol Dweck, quoted in Joe Kita, "Bounce Back Chronicles," _Reader's Digest, _May 2009, 95.

  3. See _Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service_ (2004), 115.

