# Listen to Learn

In his invocation for this session of conference, Elder Hugh W. Pinnock prayed
that we might listen carefully. Many articles in Church literature have dealt
with the important art of listening.[1] They support a proverb that teaches
this vital lesson: "Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be
wise." ([Prov. 19:20](/scriptures/ot/prov/19.20?lang=eng#19).)[2] Surely
wisdom will come as we _listen to learn_ from children, parents, partners,
neighbors, Church leaders, and the Lord.

## Children

Parents and teachers, learn to listen, then listen to learn from children. A
wise father once said, "I do a greater amount of good when I listen to my
children than when I talk to them."[3]

When our youngest daughter was about four years of age, I came home from
hospital duties quite late one evening. I found my dear wife to be very weary.
I don't know why. She only had nine children underfoot all day. So I offered
to get our four-year-old ready for bed. I began to give the orders: "Take off
your clothes; hang them up; put on your pajamas; brush your teeth; say your
prayers" and so on, commanding in a manner befitting a tough sergeant in the
army. Suddenly she cocked her head to one side, looked at me with a wistful
eye, and said, "Daddy, do you own me?"

She taught me an important lesson. I was using coercive methods on this sweet
soul. To rule children by force is the technique of Satan, not of the Savior.
No, we don't own our children. Our parental privilege is to love them, to lead
them, and to let them go.

The time to listen is when someone needs to be heard. Children are naturally
eager to share their experiences, which range from triumphs of delight to
trials of distress. Are we as eager to listen? If they try to express their
anguish, is it possible for us to listen openly to a shocking experience
without going into a state of shock ourselves? Can we listen without
interrupting and without making snap judgments that slam shut the door of
dialogue? It can remain open with the soothing reassurance that we believe in
them and understand their feelings. Adults should not pretend an experience
did not happen just because they might wish otherwise.

Even silence can be misinterpreted. A story was written of "a little boy [who]
looked up at his mother and said, 'Why are you mad at me?' She answered, 'I'm
not angry at you. What makes you say that?' 'Well, your hands are on your
hips, and you are not saying anything.'"[4]

Parents with teenage youth may find that time for listening is often less
convenient but more important when young people feel lonely or troubled. And
when they seem to deserve favor least, they may need it most.

Wise parents and teachers, listen to learn from children.

## Parents

Children of all ages, learn to listen, and listen to learn from parents, as
Elder Oaks taught us this morning. Spiritually or physically, it can be a
matter of life and death.

Several years ago, I was invited to give an important lecture at a medical
school in New York City. The night before the lecture, Sister Nelson and I
were invited to dinner at the home of our host professor. There he proudly
introduced us to an honor medical student--his beautiful daughter.

Some weeks later, that professor telephoned me in an obvious state of grief. I
asked, "What is the matter?"

"Remember our daughter whom you met at our home?"

"Of course," I replied. "I'll never forget such a stunning young lady."

Then her father sobbed and said, "Last night she was killed in an automobile
accident!" Trying to gain composure, he continued: "She asked permission to go
to a dance with a certain young man. I didn't have a good feeling about it. I
told her so and asked her not to go. She asked, 'Why?' I simply told her that
I was uneasy. She had always been an obedient daughter, but she said that if I
could not give her a good reason to decline, she wanted to go. And so she did.
At the dance, alcoholic beverages were served. Her escort drank a bit--we
don't know how much. While returning home, he was driving too fast, missed a
turn, and careened through a guardrail into a reservoir below. They were both
submerged and taken to their death."

As I shared my feeling of sadness, he concluded: "My grief is made worse
because I had the distinct feeling that trouble lay ahead. Why couldn't I have
been more persuasive?"

This experience will not have been in vain if others can listen and learn from
it. Children, honor your parents,[5] even when they cannot give a satisfactory
explanation for their feelings. Please have faith in this scripture, which
applies to all age groups: "Hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake
not the law of thy mother." ([Prov. 1:8](/scriptures/ot/prov/1.8?lang=eng#7).)

Parents have a divine duty to teach their children to love the Lord.[6]
Children have an equal obligation to "obey [their] parents in the Lord."
([Eph. 6:1](/scriptures/nt/eph/6.1?lang=eng#0).)[7]

Wise children, listen to learn from parents.

## Partners

Husbands and wives, learn to listen, and listen to learn from one another. I
was amused to read of an experience recorded by Elder F. Burton Howard in his
biography of President Marion G. Romney: "His good-humored love for Ida was
manifested in many ways. He delighted in telling of her hearing loss. 'I once
went to see a doctor about her hearing,' he would say. 'He asked me how bad it
was, and I said I didn't know. He told me to go home and find out. The doctor
instructed me to go into a far room and speak to her. Then I should move
nearer and nearer until she does hear. Following the doctor's instructions, I
spoke to her from the bedroom while she was in the kitchen--no answer. I moved
nearer and spoke again--no answer. So I went right up to the door of the
kitchen and said, "Ida, can you hear me?" She responded, "What is it, Marion--
I've answered you three times."'"[8]

Even with normal hearing, some couples seem not to listen to one another.
Taking time to talk is essential to keep lines of communication intact. If
marriage is a prime relationship in life, it deserves prime time! Yet less
important appointments are often given priority, leaving only leftover moments
for listening to precious partners.

Keeping the garden of marriage well cultivated and free from weeds of neglect
requires the time and commitment of love. It is not only a pleasant privilege,
it is a scriptural requirement with promise of eternal glory.[9]

Wise partners, listen to learn from one another.

## Neighbors

Learn to listen, and listen to learn from neighbors. Repeatedly the Lord has
said, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour." ([Lev.
19:18](/scriptures/ot/lev/19.18?lang=eng#17); [Matt.
19:19](/scriptures/nt/matt/19.19?lang=eng#18).)[10] Opportunities to listen to
those of diverse religious or political persuasion can promote tolerance and
learning. And a good listener will listen to a person's sentiments as well. I
learned much from Brother David M. Kennedy as we met with many dignitaries in
nations abroad. When one of them spoke, Brother Kennedy not only looked eye to
eye and listened with real intent, but he even removed his reading glasses, as
if to show that he wanted nothing in the way of his total concentration.

The wise listen to learn from neighbors.

## Church Leaders

Members, learn to listen, and listen to learn from Church leaders. Faithful
members love the Savior and honor His servants, having faith in the Lord's
declaration that "whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it
is the same." ([D&amp;C 1:38](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.38?lang=eng#37).)

One day in Italy I met a wonderful priesthood leader and his wife. In him I
saw a man with great potential. But my language was foreign to them. Through
an interpreter, I challenged them to study the English language. They listened
obediently and studied diligently. Now six years later, ably sustained by his
wife, Carolina, Vincenzo Conforte is faithfully serving his _second_
assignment as a mission president, interviewing missionaries well in Italian
or in English.

President Ezra Taft Benson has proclaimed the importance of studying the Book
of Mormon. People throughout the earth are being blessed as they follow this
and other counsel he has given.

Gratefully we thank God for a prophet to guide us in these latter days. But
many turn a deaf ear to his teachings, oblivious to his prophetic position.
They do so at great risk, for scriptures contain this warning:

"A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you ... ; him shall ye hear in
all things whatsoever he shall say unto you. ...

"Every soul, which will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among
the people." ([Acts 3:22-23](/scriptures/nt/acts/3.22-23?lang=eng#21).)[11]

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said, "We do not lack a prophet; what we lack
is a listening ear."[12] Words of the Lord are taught by His disciples. (See
[D&amp;C 1:4](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.4?lang=eng#3).) Wise members
listen to learn from Church leaders.

## The Lord

Above all, God's children should learn to listen, then listen to learn from
the Lord. On several sacred occasions in the world's history, our Heavenly
Father has personally appeared to introduce His divine Son with a specific
charge to "_hear_ him."[13]

Jesus taught this first and great commandment: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." ([Matt.
22:37](/scriptures/nt/matt/22.37?lang=eng#36).)

Scriptures recorded in all dispensations teach that we show our _love_ of God
as we _hearken_ to His commandments and _obey_ them.[14] These actions are
closely connected. In fact, the Hebrew language of the Old Testament in most
instances uses the same term for both _hearkening_ (to the Lord) and
_obedience_ (to His word).[15]

In addition to hearing the word of the Lord obediently, we manifest our love
for God through prayer. And listening is an essential part of prayer. Answers
from the Lord come ever so quietly. Hence He has counseled us to "be still and
know that I am God." ([D&amp;C 101:16](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/101.16?lang=eng#15).)

President Spencer W. Kimball said, "It would not hurt us, either, if we paused
at the end of our prayers to do some intense listening--even for a moment or
two--always praying, as the Savior did, 'not my will, but thine, be done.'
([Luke 22:42](/scriptures/nt/luke/22.42?lang=eng#41).)"[16]

In a world scarred by scourges of tyranny and war, many of its inhabitants
earnestly pray for inner peace. For example, not long ago a beautiful young
mother named Svetlana developed an intense desire to obtain a Bible. But in
her city of Leningrad, a Bible was very rare and expensive. Frequently and
fervently she prayed for a Bible. Ultimately, she and her husband were
impressed to travel with their small child to Helsinki, Finland, with that
hope in mind. There one day while walking in a park, she stumbled across an
object buried under the cover of autumn leaves. She picked it up and found it
to be a Bible written in the Russian language! Excitedly she recounted the
story of this great discovery to another mother who was also in the park with
her youngster. The second mother rejoiced with Svetlana and added, "Would you
like to have _another_ book about Jesus Christ?" Svetlana, of course, answered
in the affirmative. The other mother provided Svetlana with a copy of a
Russian-language edition of the Book of Mormon and invited the family to
church. She eagerly embraced the teachings of the missionaries and shortly
thereafter joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then they
returned to their home, where they have helped pioneer the work in the
Leningrad Branch of the Church.[17]

Her experience typifies this promise of the Savior to those who seek Him:
"Thus saith the Lord God: I will give unto the children of men line upon line,
precept upon precept, here a little and there a little; and blessed are those
who _hearken_ unto my precepts, and _lend an ear_ unto my counsel, for they
shall learn wisdom; for unto him that receiveth I will give more." ([2 Ne.
28:30](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.30?lang=eng#29); italics added.)[18]

While stressing the importance of listening well, I am mindful of those who
cannot hear. Many labeled as deaf have received the Spirit "by the hearing of
faith." ([Gal. 3:2](/scriptures/nt/gal/3.2?lang=eng#1).)[19] The example of
Rachel Ivins Grant is inspiring to me. She never complained about her own
deafness. Though most women in their seventies would be completely worn out
while rearing six growing children of another mother, she undertook that task.
Rachel's deafness seemed to save her from the wear and tear of noise.
Sometimes, when two were arguing, Rachel would burst out laughing. She said
they had no idea how funny it was to see their angry faces and hear none of
their words.

Before her son, Heber J. Grant, became the seventh President of the Church,
she declared, "Of course the greatest trial I have is that I cannot hear, but
I have so many blessings I cannot complain, but if we only will live so that
we may receive the instructions of God, there is nothing we are called to pass
through but will be for our good."[20]

The Redeemer loves such faithful souls: "For the eyes of the Lord are over the
righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers." ([1 Pet.
3:12](/scriptures/nt/1-pet/3.12?lang=eng#11).)

They qualify for this prophetic promise: "Before they call, I [the Lord] will
answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear" ([Isa.
65:24](/scriptures/ot/isa/65.24?lang=eng#23)).

To all of God's children, either able to hear or deaf to mortal sound, He
offers this reward: "Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul
shall live." ([Isa. 55:3](/scriptures/ot/isa/55.3?lang=eng#2).)[21]

Your soul will be blessed as you learn to listen, then listen to learn from
children, parents, partners, neighbors, and Church leaders, all of which will
heighten capacity to hear counsel from on high.

Carefully listen to learn from the Lord through the still small voice--the
Holy Spirit--which leads to truth.[22] Listen to learn by studying scriptures
that record His holy mind and will.[23] Listen to learn in prayer, for He will
answer the humble who truly seek Him.[24]

The wise listen to learn from the Lord. I testify of Him and certify that as
we "hearken and ... hear the voice of the Lord," we will be blessed, "for the
hour of his coming is nigh" ([D&amp;C 133:16-17](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/133.16-17?lang=eng#15)), in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. Examples include:Marvin J. Ashton, "Family Communications," _New Era_ (Oct. 1978), pp. 7-9.Lynne Baker, "Please Take Time to Listen!!" _Improvement Era_ (Nov. 1968), pp. 110-13.Marilyn A. Bullock, "Listening to My Two-Year-Old," _Ensign_ (Jan. 1983), p. 70.Henry B. Eyring, "Listen Together," _1988-89 Devotional and Fireside Speeches,_ Provo: Brigham Young University Press, 1989, pp. 11-21.Winnifred C. Jardine, "Listen with All of You," _Ensign_ (Feb. 1974), p. 51.Larry K. Langlois, "When Couples Don't Listen to Each Other," _Ensign_ (Sept. 1989), pp. 16-19.Boyd K. Packer, "Prayers and Answers," _Ensign_ (Nov. 1979), pp. 19-21.H. Burke Peterson, "Preparing the Heart," _Ensign_ (May 1990), pp. 83-84.Viewpoint Editorial, "Giving with Your Ears," _Church News_ (13 Jan. 1985), p. 16.Young Authors, "Parents, Are You Listening?" _Ensign_ (Feb. 1971), pp. 54-57.

  2. See also [Prov. 8:32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/8.32-33?lang=eng#31); [Jacob 6:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/6.12?lang=eng#11).

  3. George D. Durrant, "Take Time to Talk," _Ensign_ (Apr. 1973), p. 24. See also [James 1:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.19?lang=eng#18).

  4. Florence B. Pinnock, "Let's Listen," _Improvement Era_ (Oct. 1964), pp. 872-73.

  5. See [Ex. 20:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.12?lang=eng#11); [Deut. 5:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/5.16?lang=eng#15); [Matt. 15:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/15.4?lang=eng#3); [Matt. 19:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/19.19?lang=eng#18); [Mark 7:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/7.10?lang=eng#9); [Mark 10:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/10.19?lang=eng#18); [Luke 18:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/18.20?lang=eng#19); [Eph. 6:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/6.2?lang=eng#1); [1 Ne. 17:55](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.55?lang=eng#54); [Mosiah 13:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/13.20?lang=eng#19).

  6. See [Lev. 10:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/10.11?lang=eng#10); [Deut. 4:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/4.10?lang=eng#9); [Deut. 6:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/6.7?lang=eng#6); [Deut. 11:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/11.19?lang=eng#18); [Mosiah 1:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/1.4?lang=eng#3); [D&amp;C 68:25, 28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/68.25,28?lang=eng#24); [Moses 6:57-58](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.57-58?lang=eng#56).

  7. See also [Col. 3:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/3.20?lang=eng#19).

  8. F. Burton Howard, _Marion G. Romney: His Life and Faith,_ Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1988, pp. 144-45.

  9. See [Eph. 5:25, 33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/5.25,33?lang=eng#24); [Col. 3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/3.19?lang=eng#18); [1 Pet. 3:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/3.1?lang=eng#0); [Jacob 3:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/3.7?lang=eng#6); [D&amp;C 132:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.19?lang=eng#18).

  10. See also [Matt. 22:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/22.39?lang=eng#38); [Mark 12:31, 33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/12.31,33?lang=eng#30); [Luke 10:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/10.27?lang=eng#26); [Rom. 13:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/13.9?lang=eng#8); [Gal. 5:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/5.14?lang=eng#13); [James 2:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/2.8?lang=eng#7); [Mosiah 23:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/23.15?lang=eng#14); [D&amp;C 59:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.6?lang=eng#5).

  11. See also [Jer. 5:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/5.21?lang=eng#20); [D&amp;C 1:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.14?lang=eng#13).

  12. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Not a Prophet--but a Listening Ear," _Improvement Era_ (Nov. 1948), p. 685.

  13. See [Matt. 17:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/17.5?lang=eng#4); [Mark 9:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/9.7?lang=eng#6); [Luke 9:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/9.35?lang=eng#34); [3 Ne. 11:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.7?lang=eng#6); [JS--H 1:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.17?lang=eng#16); italics added.

  14. See [Ex. 20:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.6?lang=eng#5); [Deut. 5:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/5.10?lang=eng#9); [Deut. 7:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/7.9?lang=eng#8); [Deut. 11:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/11.1?lang=eng#0); [Deut. 30:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/30.16?lang=eng#15); [Josh. 22:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/josh/22.5?lang=eng#4); [Neh. 1:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/neh/1.5?lang=eng#4); [Dan. 9:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/dan/9.4?lang=eng#3); [John 14:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.15?lang=eng#14); [John 15:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/15.10?lang=eng#9); [1 Jn. 5:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-jn/5.2-3?lang=eng#1); [2 Jn. 1:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-jn/1.6?lang=eng#5); [Mosiah 13:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/13.14?lang=eng#13); [D&amp;C 42:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.2?lang=eng#1); [D&amp;C 46:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/46.9?lang=eng#8); [D&amp;C 124:87](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.87?lang=eng#86).

  15. That term was (shama'), which means "to hear intelligently." The term was used hundreds of times in the Hebrew Old Testament, as Israel was counseled to _hearken_ to the word of the Lord and _obey_ it.Different terms were used in some instances in the Hebrew text whenever reference was made to hearing or responding _without_ implied obedience. Examples:"They have ears, but they _hear_ not." ([Ps. 135:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/135.17?lang=eng#16); see also [Ps. 140:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/140.6?lang=eng#5); italics added.) ('azan) to give ear--to listen"I will _hear,_ saith the Lord, I will _hear_ the heavens, and they shall _hear_ the earth." ([Hosea 2:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/hosea/2.21?lang=eng#20); italics added.) ('anah) to pay attention--to answer"Lift up thy voice, O daughter ... : cause it to be _heard._" ([Isa. 10:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/10.30?lang=eng#29); italics added; see also [Ps. 10:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/10.17?lang=eng#16).) (qashav) to give heedStill different terms were employed in the Old Testament when referring to obedience _not_ to Deity but to other people. Examples:"The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to _obey_ his mother." ([Prov. 30:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/30.17?lang=eng#16); italics added.) (yiqqahah) obedience, to obey"The children of Ammon shall _obey_ them." ([Isa. 11:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/11.14?lang=eng#13); italics added.) (mishma'ath) audience--obedienceThat link between _listening_ and _obedience_ is found not only in Hebrew, but in Latin and Greek. The word _obey_ comes from two Latin roots: the prefix _ob_ "to" or "toward," and the root _audio, audire_ "to hear" or "to listen." This root occurs in words such as _audio, audience,_ or _auditorium._ Literally, then, the word _obey_ means "to hear or to listen _toward,_" that is, "to comply."The word for _obey_ in Greek, (hupakouo), literally means "listen under," from _hypo_ "under" as in _hypo-dermic,_ also "in subjection or subordination" and the root _akouo_ "hear, listen" as in _acoustics._ In New Testament times, its use was gradually broadened to less sacred realms, including expressions such as "children, obey parents" (see [Eph. 6:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/6.1?lang=eng#0); [Col. 3:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/3.20?lang=eng#19)), "wives, [obey] husbands" (see [1 Pet. 3:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/3.1?lang=eng#0)), "servants, obey ... masters" (see [Col. 3:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/3.22?lang=eng#21)), and so on.A parallel pattern is found in the Book of Mormon. Use of terms such as _listen, hear,_ and _hearken,_ written at the time of the Old Testament, generally carried the same implication of obedience to Deity. Those terms in Book of Mormon scriptures written _after_ the earthly advent of Christ were also broadened to include the more familiar usage, as in the language of the New Testament.

  16. Spencer W. Kimball, "We Need a Listening Ear," _Ensign,_ (Nov. 1979), pp. 4-5.

  17. Steven R. Mecham, president of the Finland Helsinki Mission, personal communication to the author, 26 Apr. 1990. Svetlana's last name is Artemova. The name of the other mother is Raija Kemppainen, wife of Jussi Kemppainen, who at that time was president of the Baltic District of that mission.

  18. See also [D&amp;C 29:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/29.7?lang=eng#6).

  19. For example, see Anne C. Bradshaw, "Listen with Your Heart," (_New Era,_ Mar. 1989), pp. 28-31.

  20. _Woman's Exponent,_ (1 and 15 Dec. 1902), p. 52. Earlier, at age 67, she wrote: "I look for the time when I will be able to hear by the power of God." (Ibid., 15 Aug. 1888, p. 46.)

  21. See also [Mosiah 2:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 5:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.41?lang=eng#40); [Alma 36:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.3?lang=eng#2); [3 Ne. 23:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/23.5?lang=eng#4).

  22. See [1 Kgs. 19:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/19.12?lang=eng#11); [1 Ne. 17:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.45?lang=eng#44); [D&amp;C 85:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/85.6?lang=eng#5).

  23. See [John 5:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/5.39?lang=eng#38); [Alma 14:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/14.1?lang=eng#0); [Alma 33:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/33.2?lang=eng#1).

  24. See [Mosiah 9:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/9.18?lang=eng#17); [Mosiah 23:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/23.10?lang=eng#9); [Alma 9:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/9.26?lang=eng#25); [D&amp;C 19:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.23?lang=eng#22); [D&amp;C 112:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/112.10?lang=eng#9); [Abr. 2:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/2.19?lang=eng#18); JS--H, footnote, para. 5, p. 59.

