# Living by Scriptural Guidance

Recently Sister Nelson and I were in Denmark during the commemoration of the
150th anniversary of the Church in Scandinavia. Between meetings, we took a
few hours to search for villages where two of my father's grandparents were
born. They were among the early converts to the Church in Denmark. Father's
paternal grandmother's family lived in the western part of the country. [1]
His paternal grandfather's family lived in northern Denmark. [2]  Thanks to a
good driver and a superb map, we found each town on our list and obtained
treasured information. During the entire journey, my hands were riveted to
that valuable map so essential to achieve our goals.

In contrast, many people travel through life without good guidance, lacking
knowledge of a desired destination or how to get there. But if rapt attention
is paid to a road map for a day's journey, isn't it also wise to pay attention
to authoritative guidance on our journey through life? To this end I would
like to speak--on _why_ we need guidance, _where _we obtain it, and _how_ we
can achieve it.

## Why We Need Guidance

The question _why_ focuses on the purpose of life. The ultimate objective in
our mortal journey has been revealed by our Creator, who said, "If you keep my
commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is
the greatest of all the gifts of God." [3]

His gift of eternal life is subject to conditions established by Him. [4]
Those conditions constitute a plan, or, to use my analogy, a spiritual road
map. And when trouble comes, guidance is needed most. In our journey in
Denmark, we met an unexpected detour that led us astray. In order to get back
on course, we stopped the car. We studied the map with great care. Then we
made the necessary course correction.

What if you are lost and have no map? Suppose you are alone. You do not know
where you are. What can you do? You call for help! You call home! Call the
Church! Pray! When connected with your help line, you learn that you need to
make a climb here or a turn there to get back on course. Or you may have to go
back to the beginning in order to be certain that you can get where you want
to go.

## Where We Obtain Guidance

That brings us to the question of _where_ do we obtain the guidance we need.
We turn to Him who knows us best--our Creator. He allowed us to come to earth
with freedom to choose our own course. In His great love, He did not leave us
alone. He provided a guide--a spiritual road map--to help us achieve success
in our journey. We call that guide the standard works, so named because they--
the Holy Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl
of Great Price--constitute the _standard_ by which we should live. They serve
as a standard of reference, as are standards of time, weights, and measures
that are kept in national bureaus of standards.

To reach our objective of eternal life, we need to follow teachings in the
standard works and other revelations received from prophets of God. [5]  Our
loving Lord foresaw our need for guidance: "For strait is the gate," He said,
"and narrow the way that leadeth unto the exaltation and continuation of the
lives, and few there be that find it." [6]

Few find the way because they ignore the divine road map provided by the Lord.
An even more serious mistake is to ignore the Maker of the map. God declared
in the first of His Ten Commandments, "Thou shalt have no other gods before
me." [7]  Yet carnal man tends to let his loyalty drift toward idols.

For example, we marvel at computers and the Internet that enable transmission
of data with remarkable speed. We are truly grateful for these electronic
servants. But if we let them take over our time, pervert our potential, or
poison our minds with pornography, they cease being servants and become
instead false gods.

The Master warned of those who "seek not the Lord to establish his
righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of
his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance
is that of an idol." [8]

False gods can only lead to dead ends. If our journey through life is to be
successful, we need to follow divine direction. The Lord said, "Look unto me
in every thought; doubt not, fear not." [9]  And the Psalmist wrote, "Thy word
is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." [10]

Following such counsel demands not only conviction but conversion and often
repentance. That would please the Lord, who said, "Repent, and turn yourselves
from your idols; and turn ... from all your abominations." [11]

In your journey through life, you meet many obstacles and make some mistakes.
Scriptural guidance helps you to recognize error and make the necessary
correction. You stop going in the wrong direction. You carefully study the
scriptural road map. Then you proceed with repentance and restitution required
to get on the "strait and narrow path which leads to eternal life." [12]

Brothers and sisters, our busy lives force us to focus on things we _do_ from
day to day. But the development of character comes only as we focus on who we
really _are._ To establish and accomplish those greater goals, we do need
heavenly help.

## How We Can Achieve Scriptural Guidance

Once we understand _why_ we need guidance and _where_ we obtain it, we then
ask, _how_ can we achieve it? How can we truly live, not "by bread alone, but
by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God"? [13]

We begin with a determination to "liken all scriptures unto us ... for our
profit and learning." [14]  If we "press forward, feasting upon the word of
Christ, and endure to the end, ... [we] shall have eternal life." [15]

To feast means more than to taste. To feast means to savor. We savor the
scriptures by studying them in a spirit of delightful discovery and faithful
obedience. [16]  When we feast upon the words of Christ, they are embedded "in
fleshy tables of the heart." [17]  They become an integral part of our nature.

Many years ago a medical colleague chastised me for failing to separate my
professional knowledge from my religious convictions. That startled me because
I did not feel that truth should be fractionalized. Truth is indivisible.

Danger lurks when we divide ourselves with expressions such as "my private
life," "my professional life," or even "my best behavior." Living life in
separate compartments can lead to internal conflict and exhausting tension. To
escape that tension, many people unwisely resort to addicting substances,
pleasure seeking, or self-indulgence, which in turn produce more tension, thus
creating a vicious cycle.

Inner peace comes only as we maintain the integrity of truth in all aspects of
our lives. When we covenant to follow the Lord and obey His commandments, we
accept His standards in _every_ thought, action, and deed.

Living the Lord's standards requires that we cultivate the gift of the Holy
Ghost. That gift helps us understand doctrine and apply it personally. Because
truth given by revelation can only be understood by revelation, [18]  our
studies need to be prayerful. Scriptures attest to the efficacy of prayer in
daily life. One is in Proverbs: "In all thy ways acknowledge [God], and he
shall direct thy paths." [19]  Another comes from the Book of Mormon: "Counsel
with the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for good." [20]

As you ponder and pray about doctrinal principles, the Holy Ghost will speak
to your mind and your heart. [21]  From events portrayed in the scriptures,
new insights will come and principles relevant to your situation will distill
upon your heart.

You cultivate such revelatory experiences by living according to the light
already given you and by searching the scriptures with pure motives--with real
intent to "come unto Christ." [22]  As you do so, your confidence will "wax
strong in the presence of God," and the Holy Ghost will be your constant
companion. [23]

Achieving scriptural guidance is aided by posing pertinent questions. [24]
You might ask, "What principle can be learned from these teachings of the
Lord?" For example, scriptures teach that the Creation was accomplished in six
periods of time. [25]  Principles learned from that study show that any great
attainment requires proper planning, timing, patience, labor, and no
shortcuts.

Next, I suggest that you shape the style of your study to fit you. [26]  One
way is to read a book of scripture from the first page to the last. This
method gives good overall perspective. But other approaches also have merit.
Attention to a particular topic or a specific theme, supplemented by use of
cross-referencing footnotes and study guides, can help to switch on the light
of doctrinal understanding.

Guidance can come when grappling with a serious challenge in life. Years ago,
in the days of my early scientific research in a field that was then new to
medical practice, a scriptural standard of truth gave me the courage needed to
persevere. I leaned heavily upon these verses in the Doctrine and Covenants:

"All kingdoms have a law given;

"And there are many kingdoms; for there is no space in the which there is no
kingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space. ...

"And unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain
bounds also and conditions." [27]  We learned laws that pertained to the
"kingdom" of our concern and mastered control that had previously been
relegated by ignorance to chance alone.

Motivation for scriptural guidance comes when important choices must be made--
even between options that are equally right. The Brethren are often faced with
these kinds of decisions. On such an occasion, we turn to the scriptures. We
may read all of the standard works afresh, looking for insights relative to a
specific issue.

Time for scripture study requires a schedule that will be honored. Otherwise,
blessings that matter most will be at the mercy of things that matter least.
Time for _family_ scripture study may be difficult to establish. Years ago
when our children were at home, they attended different grades in several
schools. Their daddy had to be at the hospital no later than 7:00 in the
morning. In family council we determined that our best time for scripture
study was 6:00 A.M. At that hour our little ones were very sleepy but
supportive. Occasionally we had to awaken one when a turn came to read. I
would be less than honest with you if I conveyed the impression that our
family scripture time was a howling success. Occasionally it was more howling
than successful. But we did not give up.

Now, a generation later, our children are all married with families of their
own. Sister Nelson and I have watched them enjoy family scripture study in
their own homes. Their efforts are much more successful than were ours. We
shudder to think what might have happened if we had quit trying. [28]

We all _need_ guidance through life. We _obtain_ it best from the standard
works and teachings of the prophets of God. With diligent effort, we can
_achieve_ that guidance and thus qualify for all of the blessings that God has
in store for His faithful children. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

## References

  1.  Gørding, Vejrup, and Vester Nebel, in Ribe County.

  2.  Mølholm, Støre Brøndum, in Ålborg County.

  3.   [D&amp;C 14:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/14.7?lang=eng#6).

  4.  See [D&amp;C 130:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.21?lang=eng#20).

  5.  See [D&amp;C 1:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.38?lang=eng#37).

  6.   [D&amp;C 132:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.22?lang=eng#21).

  7.   [Ex. 20:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.3?lang=eng#2).

  8.   [D&amp;C 1:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.16?lang=eng#15).

  9.   [D&amp;C 6:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.36?lang=eng#35).

  10.   [Ps. 119:105](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/119.105?lang=eng#104).

  11.   [Ezek. 14:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezek/14.6?lang=eng#5).

  12.   [2 Ne. 31:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.18?lang=eng#17); see also [Matt. 7:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.14?lang=eng#13); [Jacob 6:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/6.11?lang=eng#10); [3 Ne. 14:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/14.14?lang=eng#13); [3 Ne. 27:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.33?lang=eng#32); [D&amp;C 132:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.22?lang=eng#21).

  13.   [Matt. 4:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/4.4?lang=eng#3).

  14.   [1 Ne. 19:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/19.23?lang=eng#22).

  15.   [2 Ne. 31:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.20?lang=eng#19).

  16.  Scriptures give encouragement to live in accord with the will of our Maker, who said, "If thou turn away ... from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, ... and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, ... then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord" ([Isa. 58:13-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/58.13-14?lang=eng#12)). Self-esteem is also earned by obedience to God's commandments regarding chastity (see [Ex. 20:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.14?lang=eng#13); [Lev. 18:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/18.22?lang=eng#21); [Matt. 5:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.28?lang=eng#27); [1 Cor. 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/6.9?lang=eng#8); [3 Ne. 12:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.28?lang=eng#27); [D&amp;C 42:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.24?lang=eng#23); [D&amp;C 59:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.6?lang=eng#5)).

  17.   [2 Cor. 3:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-cor/3.3?lang=eng#2).

  18.  See [1 Cor. 2:11-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/2.11-14?lang=eng#10).

  19.   [Prov. 3:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/3.6?lang=eng#5).

  20.   [Alma 37:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.37?lang=eng#36).

  21.  See [D&amp;C 8:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/8.2?lang=eng#1).

  22.   [Jacob 1:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/1.7?lang=eng#6); [Omni 1:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/omni/1.26?lang=eng#25); [Moro. 10:30, 32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.30%2C32?lang=eng#29).

  23.   [D&amp;C 121:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.45?lang=eng#44); see also [D&amp;C 121:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.46?lang=eng#45).

  24.  As any good thing can be misused, a word of warning may be appropriate. The scriptures don't have the answers to every question. Many important truths have yet to be revealed. Preoccupation with the so-called "mysteries" should be avoided. Beware also of private interpretation. Look to the living prophets and official policies for interpretation. Don't judge others whose circumstances are not yours to judge. We are reassured, however, that they who "diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost" ([1 Ne. 10:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.19?lang=eng#18)). Keep in mind, too, that many revelations have been given in response to prophetic inquiry. It is interesting to note that the first and last books of the Old Testament pose important questions: "Am I my brother's keeper?" ([Gen. 4:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/4.9?lang=eng#8)), and "Will a man rob God?" ([Mal. 3:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/mal/3.8?lang=eng#7)).

  25.  See [Ex. 20:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.11?lang=eng#10); [Ex. 31:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/31.17?lang=eng#16); [Mosiah 13:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/13.19?lang=eng#18); [D&amp;C 77:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/77.12?lang=eng#11); [Abr. 4:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/4.31?lang=eng#30).

  26.  In your personal scripture study, you may wish to correlate your reading with a Church-outlined course of study, such as the Gospel Doctrine curriculum. Some like to prepare memorization cards that they can use while waiting for appointments or meetings.

  27.   [D&amp;C 88:36-38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.36-38?lang=eng#35).

  28.  Personal and family scripture study can employ books, recordings, or other material. Those who will establish a time for scripture study and endure in that endeavor will maintain a positive spirit throughout their days.

