# The Sacrament and the Atonement

On the eve of Gethsemane and Calvary, Jesus gathered His Apostles together one
last time to worship. The place was the upper room of a disciple's home in
Jerusalem, and the season was Passover.[1]

Before them was the traditional Passover meal, consisting of the sacrificial
lamb, wine, and unleavened bread, emblems of Israel's past salvation from
slavery and death[2] and of a future redemption yet to be realized.[3] As the
meal drew to a conclusion, Jesus took bread, blessed and broke it,[4] and gave
it to His Apostles, saying, "Take, eat."[5] "This is my body which is given
for you: this do in remembrance of me."[6] In a similar manner, He took the
cup of wine, offered a blessing on it, and passed it to those around Him,
saying: "This cup is the new testament in my blood,"[7] "which is shed ... for
the remission of sins."[8] "This do in remembrance of me."[9]

In this simple yet profound manner, Jesus instituted a new ordinance for God's
covenant people. No longer would animal blood be spilled or animal flesh be
consumed in anticipation of a redeeming sacrifice of a Christ who was yet to
come.[10] Instead, emblems of the broken flesh and spilled blood of the Christ
who had already come would be taken and eaten in remembrance of His redeeming
sacrifice.[11] Participation in this new ordinance would signify to all a
solemn acceptance of Jesus as the promised Christ and wholehearted willingness
to follow Him and keep His commandments. To those who would so signify and
conduct their life, spiritual death would "pass over" them, and eternal life
would be assured.

In the hours and days that followed, Jesus entered into Gethsemane, was taken
to Calvary, and triumphantly departed the Arimathean's tomb. After His
departure from them, Jesus's faithful disciples in and about Jerusalem came
together on the first day of the week to "break bread,"[12] and they did so
"steadfastly."[13] Surely, they did so not only to remember their departed
Lord but also to express gratitude for and faith in His marvelous Redemption
of them.

Significantly, when Jesus visited His disciples in the Americas, He also
instituted the sacrament among them.[14] In doing so, He said: "This shall ye
always observe to do,"[15] and "it shall be a testimony unto the Father that
ye do always remember me."[16] Again, at the outset of the Restoration, the
Lord instituted the ordinance of the sacrament, giving instructions to us
similar to those He gave His earlier disciples.[17]

The ordinance of the sacrament has been called "one of the most holy and
sacred ordinances in the Church."[18] It needs to become more holy and sacred
to each of us. Jesus Christ Himself instituted the ordinance to remind us what
He did to redeem us and to teach us how we may avail ourselves of His
Redemption and thereby live with God again.

With torn and broken bread, we signify that we remember the physical body of
Jesus Christ--a body that was buffeted with pains, afflictions, and
temptations of every kind,[19] a body that bore a burden of anguish sufficient
to bleed at every pore,[20] a body whose flesh was torn and whose heart was
broken in crucifixion.[21] We signify our belief that while that same body was
laid to rest in death, it was raised again to life from the grave, never again
to know disease, decay, or death.[22] And in taking the bread to ourselves, we
acknowledge that, like Christ's mortal body, our bodies will be released from
the bonds of death, rise triumphantly from the grave, and be restored to our
eternal spirits.[23]

With a small cup of water, we signify that we remember the blood Jesus spilled
and the spiritual suffering He endured for all mankind. We remember the agony
that caused great drops of blood to fall in Gethsemane.[24] We remember the
bruising and scourging He endured at the hands of His captors.[25] We remember
the blood He spilled from His hands, feet, and side while at Calvary.[26] And
we remember His personal reflection on His suffering: "How sore you know not,
how exquisite you know not, yea, how hard to bear you know not."[27] In taking
the water to ourselves, we acknowledge that His blood and suffering atoned for
our sins and that He will remit our sins as we embrace and accept the
principles and ordinances of His gospel.

Thus, with bread and water, we are reminded of Christ's Redemption of us from
death and sin. The sequence of bread first and water second is not
inconsequential. In partaking of the bread, we are reminded of our own
inevitable personal resurrection, which consists of more than just the
restoration of body and spirit. By the power of the Resurrection, all of us
will be restored to the presence of God.[28] That reality presents to us the
fundamental question of our lives. The fundamental question facing all of us
is not whether we will live but with whom we will live after we die. While
every one of us will return to the presence of God, not every one of us will
remain with Him.

Through mortality, every one of us becomes soiled with sin and
transgression.[29] We will have had thoughts, words, and works that will have
been less than virtuous.[30] In short, we will be unclean. And the consequence
of uncleanliness in the presence of God, Jesus made perfectly clear: "No
unclean thing can dwell ... in his presence."[31] That reality was brought home
to Alma the Younger, who, when confronted by a holy angel, was so racked,
harrowed, and tormented by his uncleanliness that he desired to become
"extinct both soul and body, that [he] might not be brought to stand in the
presence of ... God."[32]

In partaking of the sacramental water, we are taught how we may be made clean
from sin and transgression and thus stand in the presence of God. By the
shedding of His innocent blood, Jesus Christ satisfied the demands of justice
for every sin and transgression. He then offers to make us clean if we will
have faith in Him sufficient to repent; accept all the ordinances and
covenants of salvation, beginning with baptism; and receive the Holy Ghost.
Upon our receipt of the Holy Ghost, we are cleansed and purified. Jesus made
this doctrine very clear:

"No unclean thing can enter into [God's] kingdom; ... nothing entereth into his
rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood. ...

"Now this is the commandment: Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto
me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by the reception of
the Holy Ghost, that ye may stand spotless before me at the last day."[33]

This is the doctrine of Christ.[34] When we receive this doctrine and conduct
our lives accordingly, we are in effect washed in the blood of Christ and made
clean.[35]

Through the sacramental prayers, we express our acceptance of this doctrine of
Christ and our commitment to live according to it. In our petition to God, our
Eternal Father, we declare that we will "always remember" His precious Son.
First, we witness our "willingness" to remember. Then we witness that we "do"
remember. In so doing, we are making solemn commitments to exercise faith in
Jesus Christ and in His Redemption of us from death and sin.

We further declare that we will "keep his commandments." That is a solemn
commitment to repent. If our thoughts, words, or actions have been less than
what they should have been in days past, we recommit ourselves to more closely
align our lives with His in days to come.

Next, we declare that we "are willing to take upon [us] the name of [the]
Son."[36] That is a solemn commitment to submit ourselves to His authority and
to do His work, which includes receiving for ourselves every saving ordinance
and covenant.[37]

When we commit ourselves to these principles, we are promised in the
sacramental prayers that we will "have his Spirit to be with [us]."[38]
Receiving anew the Spirit is a consummate blessing because the Spirit is the
agent who cleanses and purifies us from sin and transgression.[39]

Brothers and sisters, the most important event in time and eternity is the
Atonement of Jesus Christ. He who accomplished the Atonement has given us the
ordinance of the sacrament to help us not only remember but also claim the
blessings of this supreme act of grace. Regular and earnest participation in
this sacred ordinance helps us continue to embrace and live the doctrine of
Christ after baptism and thereby pursue and complete the process of
sanctification. Indeed, the ordinance of the sacrament helps us faithfully
endure to the end and receive the fulness of the Father in the same way Jesus
did, grace for grace.[40]

I bear witness of the power of Jesus Christ to redeem us all from death and
sin and of the power of the ordinances of His priesthood, including the
sacrament, to prepare us to "see the face of God, even the Father, and
live."[41] May we receive the sacrament next week, and each week thereafter,
with deeper desire and more earnest purpose, I pray in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. See [Matthew 26:17-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.17-20?lang=eng#16); [Mark 14:12-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.12-17?lang=eng#11); [Luke 22:7-18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.7-18?lang=eng#6).

  2. See [Exodus 12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/12?lang=eng); [Numbers 28:16-25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/num/28.16-25?lang=eng#15); Bible Dictionary, "Feasts."

  3. See [Exodus 13:12-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/13.12-13?lang=eng#11); [Mosiah 2:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.3-4?lang=eng#2); [Moses 5:5-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.5-8?lang=eng#4).

  4. See[ Matthew 26:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.26?lang=eng#25); [Mark 14:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.22?lang=eng#21); [Luke 22:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.19?lang=eng#18); [1 Corinthians 11:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.24?lang=eng#23). By contrast, when Jesus institutes the sacrament among the Nephites after His Resurrection, He breaks the bread, then blesses it (see [3 Nephi 18:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.3?lang=eng#2)).

  5. [Matthew 26:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.26?lang=eng#25); [Mark 14:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.22?lang=eng#21); [1 Corinthians 11:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.24?lang=eng#23).

  6. [Luke 22:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.19?lang=eng#18); see also [1 Corinthians 11:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.24?lang=eng#23).

  7. [Luke 22:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.20?lang=eng#19); see also [Matthew 26:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.28?lang=eng#27); [Mark 14:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.24?lang=eng#23); [1 Corinthians 11:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.25?lang=eng#24).

  8. [Matthew 26:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.28?lang=eng#27).

  9. [Luke 22:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.19?lang=eng#18); see also [3 Nephi 18:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.11?lang=eng#10).

  10. See [2 Nephi 11:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/11.4?lang=eng#3); [25:24-25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.24-25?lang=eng#23); [Jacob 4:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.5?lang=eng#4); [Alma 34:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.14?lang=eng#13); [3 Nephi 9:17, 19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/9.17,19-20?lang=eng#16); [Moses 5:5-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.5-8?lang=eng#4).

  11. See[ John 6:51-57](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/6.51-57?lang=eng#50); [1 Corinthians 11:24-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.24-26?lang=eng#23); [Doctrine and Covenants 20:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.40?lang=eng#39).

  12. [Acts 20:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/20.7?lang=eng#6).

  13. [Acts 2:42](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/2.42?lang=eng#41).

  14. See [3 Nephi 9:19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/9.19-20?lang=eng#18); [18:1-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.1-11?lang=eng#0); [20:3-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/20.3-9?lang=eng#2); [26:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/26.13?lang=eng#12).

  15. [3 Nephi 18:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.6?lang=eng#5).

  16. [3 Nephi 18:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.7?lang=eng#6).

  17. See [Doctrine and Covenants 20:75](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.75?lang=eng#74); [27:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/27.2?lang=eng#1); [59:9-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.9-12?lang=eng#8).

  18. _Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Fielding Smith_ (2013), 96. "In my judgment the sacrament meeting is the most sacred, the most holy, of all the meetings of the Church" (_Teachings: Joseph Fielding Smith,_ 95).

  19. See[ Alma 7:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11?lang=eng#10).

  20. See[ Luke 22:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.44?lang=eng#43); [Mosiah 3:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.7?lang=eng#6); [Doctrine and Covenants 19:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.18?lang=eng#17).

  21. See[ Psalm 22:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/22.16?lang=eng#15); [John 19:33-34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.33-34?lang=eng#32); [20:25-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/20.25-27?lang=eng#24); [3 Nephi 11:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.14?lang=eng#13); [Doctrine and Covenants 6:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.37?lang=eng#36); James E. Talmage, _Jesus the Christ,_ 3rd. ed. (1916), 669.

  22. See[ Matthew 28:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/28.6?lang=eng#5); [Luke 24:6, 39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/24.6,39?lang=eng#5); [John 20:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/20.20?lang=eng#19); [Doctrine and Covenants 76:22-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.22-24?lang=eng#21).

  23. See[ John 6:51-59](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/6.51-59?lang=eng#50); [Alma 11:42-44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.42-44?lang=eng#41);[ 40:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.23?lang=eng#22); [3 Nephi 27:13-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.13-15?lang=eng#12).

  24. See[ Luke 22:44](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.44?lang=eng#43); [Mosiah 3:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.7?lang=eng#6); [Doctrine and Covenants 19:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.18?lang=eng#17).

  25. See [Isaiah 53:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/53.5?lang=eng#4);[ Matthew 26:67](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.67?lang=eng#66); [27:26, 29-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/27.26,29-30?lang=eng#25); [Mark 14:65](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/14.65?lang=eng#64); [15:15, 19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/15.15,19?lang=eng#14); [Luke 22:63-65](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/22.63-65?lang=eng#62); [John 19:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.1?lang=eng#0); [Mosiah 15:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/15.5?lang=eng#4).

  26. See[ Matthew 27:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/27.35?lang=eng#34); [Mark 15:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/15.15?lang=eng#14); [Luke 23:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/23.33?lang=eng#32); [John 19:16, 33-34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.16,33-34?lang=eng#15).

  27. [Doctrine and Covenants 19:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.15?lang=eng#14).

  28. See[ Alma 11:42-45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.42-45?lang=eng#41); [3 Nephi 27:13-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.13-15?lang=eng#12).

  29. See [Moses 6:55](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.55?lang=eng#54).

  30. See [Matthew 5:27-28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/5.27-28?lang=eng#26); [12:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/12.36?lang=eng#35); [James 3:1-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/3.1-13?lang=eng#0); [Mosiah 4:29-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.29-30?lang=eng#28); [Alma 12:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.14?lang=eng#13).

  31. [Moses 6:57](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.57?lang=eng#56); see also [1 Corinthians 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/6.9?lang=eng#8); [Ephesians 5:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/5.5?lang=eng#4); [1 Nephi 10:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.21?lang=eng#20); [15:33-34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.33-34?lang=eng#32); [Alma 7:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.21?lang=eng#20); [11:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.37?lang=eng#36); [40:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.26?lang=eng#25); [3 Nephi 27:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.19?lang=eng#18); [Doctrine and Covenants 1:31-32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.31-32?lang=eng#30).

  32. [Alma 36:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.15?lang=eng#14); see also [verse 14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.14?lang=eng#13); [Revelation 6:15-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/6.15-17?lang=eng#14); [Alma 12:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.14?lang=eng#13).

  33. [3 Nephi 27:19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.19-20?lang=eng#18).

  34. See [2 Nephi 31:2-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.2-21?lang=eng#1); [3 Nephi 11:31-41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.31-41?lang=eng#30); [27:13-22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.13-22?lang=eng#12); [Doctrine and Covenants 76:40-42, 50-54, 69-70](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.40-42,50-54,69-70?lang=eng#39).

  35. See[ 3 Nephi 27:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.19?lang=eng#18); see also [Revelation 1:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/1.5-6?lang=eng#4); [7:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/7.14-15?lang=eng#13); [Alma 5:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.21?lang=eng#20); [13:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.11-12?lang=eng#10); [Ether 13:10-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/13.10-11?lang=eng#9); [Moses 6:59-60](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.59-60?lang=eng#58).

  36. [Doctrine and Covenants 20:77](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.77?lang=eng#76); [Moroni 4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/4.3?lang=eng#2).

  37. See Dallin H. Oaks, _His Holy Name_ (1998); Dallin H. Oaks, ["Taking upon Us the Name of Jesus Christ,"](https://www.lds.org/null?lang=eng)_ Ensign,_ May 1985, 80-83.

  38. [Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.77,79?lang=eng#76); [Moroni 4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/4.3?lang=eng#2); [5:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/5.2?lang=eng#1).

  39. See [Romans 15:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/15.16?lang=eng#15); [1 Corinthians 6:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/6.11?lang=eng#10); [2 Nephi 31:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.17?lang=eng#16); [Alma 5:54](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.54?lang=eng#53); [13:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.12?lang=eng#11); [3 Nephi 27:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.20?lang=eng#19); [Moroni 6:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.4?lang=eng#3).

  40. See[ Doctrine and Covenants 93:6-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.6-20?lang=eng#5).

  41. [Doctrine and Covenants 84:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.22?lang=eng#21).

