# Our Responsibility to Take the Gospel to the Ends of the Earth

A few years ago, there was a popular series of firesides called the "Last
Lecture" series. Well-known LDS scholars were asked to choose a topic which to
them was so important that it could be the subject of the last discourse they
were ever permitted to deliver. We received some very interesting insights
from the choice of topics. It has occurred to me that our Lord, after his
resurrection but before his ascension, gave such a "last lecture" to his
disciples. His last lecture provides a profoundly significant insight. Of all
the topics from the vaults of eternal wisdom that he could have treated, he
said simply, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature." ([Mark
16:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/16.15?lang=eng#14).) And the
disciples "went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them,
and confirming the word with signs following." ([Mark
16:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/16.20?lang=eng#19).)

It is my prayer this evening that I might comment on the Lord's last lecture,
teaching you priesthood holders according to the covenants and motivating you
to respond as the Lord's disciples, with faith and unrelenting commitment. I
especially hope that you young men of the Aaronic Priesthood will understand
the importance of what I will say, because upon you will rest the major
responsibility of taking the gospel to the ends of the earth.

The life of God--the eternal, exalted life we all seek--is inherently
concerned with the salvation of souls. It is the "work and ... glory" of God to
"bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." ([Moses
1:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.39?lang=eng#38).) It is by
bringing about the conditions necessary for the salvation of his children that
God glorifies himself, progresses, and expands his dominions. (See [D&amp;C
132:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.31?lang=eng#30).)

Paul said that God "will have all men to be saved." ([1 Tim.
2:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-tim/2.4?lang=eng#3).) To our Father
in Heaven, "the worth of souls is great" ([D&amp;C
18:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.10?lang=eng#9)), and
"the redemption of their soul is precious." ([Ps.
49:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/49.8?lang=eng#7).) Therefore, God
sent his Son, the Savior and Redeemer, to loose the bands of death and atone
for the sins of carnal, fallen men. The Lord suffered the pain of all men that
all men might come unto him on condition of repentance. (See [D&amp;C
18:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/18.11-12?lang=eng#10).)

Our call to cry repentance to all people is a direct consequence of the
infinite and eternal Atonement. (See [D&amp;C
18:10-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/18.10-14?lang=eng#9).) It is by teaching the gospel and
administering the ordinances that the Atonement becomes effective in a
person's life. As Paul said, "How shall they believe in him of whom they have
not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?" ([Rom.
10:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/10.14?lang=eng#13).)

Jesus Christ himself exemplified the manner in which we fulfill this call. He
announced the purpose of his ministry by quoting Isaiah in his first public
discourse, given in a Nazarene synagogue.

"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the
gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach
deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at
liberty them that are bruised,

"To preach the acceptable year of the Lord." ([Luke
4:18-19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/4.18-19?lang=eng#17).)

The conditions of our discipleship impose on us the identical mission, for he
said, "The works which ye have seen me do that shall ye also do." ([3 Ne.
27:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.21?lang=eng#20).) We are
empowered, as necessary, to do all that the Savior did--except for the
Atonement itself--in our labors to save our fellowmen. In fact, we are told
that we must be "the saviors of men" or we will be "as salt that has lost its
savor." ([D&amp;C 103:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/103.10?lang=eng#9).)

The Lord has not left the accomplishment of this sacred labor to chance.
Through sacred covenants he imposes this responsibility on all members of his
kingdom, and simultaneously empowers us to fulfill these covenants. Even young
children and youth have this sacred duty and also the power to do it.

Elder John A. Widtsoe taught that in our premortal state "we agreed ... to be
not only saviors for ourselves but measurably, saviors for the whole human
family. ... The working out of the plan became then not merely the Father's
work, and the Savior's work, but also our work." (_Utah Genealogical and
Historical Magazine,_ Oct. 1934, p. 189.) We understood, as President George
Albert Smith noted, that "we cannot receive the beneficent favor of our
Heavenly Father that is bestowed upon us, the knowledge of eternal life, and
selfishly retain it, thinking that we may be blessed thereby. It is not what
we receive that enriches our lives, it is what we give." (in Conference
Report, Apr. 1935, p. 46.) Therefore, "those who receive the message are
obligated," said Elder Widtsoe, "... by the ageless agreement made before this
world was organized ... [to] do all in their power to bring it to the attention
of others." (_Priesthood and Church Government,_ rev. ed., comp. John A.
Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1954, pp. 318-19.)

These solemn premortal promises are renewed and confirmed upon us in the
ordinances of salvation. In baptism, for example, we covenant to "stand as
witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that [we]
may be in, even until death." ([Mosiah
18:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.9?lang=eng#8).) The
promise is that the Lord will "pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you."
([Mosiah 18:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.10?lang=eng#9).)
When partaking of the sacrament, we renew this covenant, recalling that
Christ, when introducing this sacred ordinance, said, "Of me ye shall bear
record unto all the world." (JST, Mark 14:23.) Again, the promise for
faithfulness is that we "may always have his Spirit to be with" us. ([D&amp;C
20:77](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.77?lang=eng#76).)

Again, we are "endowed with power from on high" in holy places to enable us to
"go forth among all nations." ([D&amp;C
38:32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/38.32-33?lang=eng#31).) At the dedication of the Kirtland Temple,
Joseph Smith prayed that God's servants "may go forth from this house armed
with thy power, and that thy name may be upon them, and thy glory be round
about them, and thine angels have charge over them;

"And from this place they may bear exceedingly great and glorious tidings, in
truth, unto the ends of the earth." ([D&amp;C
109:22-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/109.22-23?lang=eng#21).)

By obeying the commandments and fulfilling these covenants, we are sanctified,
purified, and born of the Spirit. We become vessels worthy of receiving the
Holy Spirit and the accompanying gifts of the Spirit that must attend this
work if we are to succeed. The fulfilling of the commandments, as Moroni
explained, "bringeth remission of sins;

"And the remission of sins bringeth meekness, and lowliness of heart; and
because of meekness and lowliness of heart cometh the visitation of the Holy
Ghost, which Comforter filleth with hope and perfect love." ([Moro.
8:25-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.25-26?lang=eng#24).)

Love, then, is evidence of our own conversion and is manifest as concern for
the salvation of others. Jacob said to the Nephites: "I am desirous for the
welfare of your souls. Yea, mine anxiety is great for you." ([2 Ne.
6:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/6.3?lang=eng#2).) The sons of
Mosiah "were desirous that salvation should be declared to every creature, for
they could not bear that any human soul should perish." ([Mosiah
28:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/28.3?lang=eng#2).)

This love, or charity, is our greatest asset. John recognized that "perfect
love casteth out fear" ([1 Jn.
4:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-jn/4.18?lang=eng#17)), which fear
and reluctance are the greatest obstacle to our experiencing the joy of
missionary service. It is also by exercising that "faith which worketh by
love" ([Gal. 5:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/5.6?lang=eng#5)) that
we are able to draw upon spiritual power, because God "worketh by power,
according to the faith of the children of men." ([Moro.
10:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.7?lang=eng#6).)

As noted by Moroni, this perfect love comes as a direct result of having our
sins remitted. It is imperative, therefore, "for the sake of retaining a
remission of your sins from day to day" ([Mosiah
4:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.26?lang=eng#25)) that we
administer to the needs and wants of our brothers and sisters, both temporally
and spiritually.

We must realize that we have received a divine commission from God and we
neglect it at the peril of our salvation. President Spencer W. Kimball said,
"If we do not do our duty in regard to missionary service, then I am convinced
that God will hold us responsible for the people we might have saved had we
done our duty." (_Ensign,_ Oct. 1977, p. 5.) This echoes Jacob's sobering
doctrine: "We did magnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us the
responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own heads if we did
not teach them the word of God with all diligence; wherefore, by laboring with
our might their blood might not come upon our garments; otherwise their blood
would come upon our garments, and we would not be found spotless at the last
day." ([Jacob
1:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/1.19?lang=eng#18).)

That is the warning. Our eternal welfare is at stake, as also is the eternal
welfare of our nonmember brothers and sisters. Yet the promises for our
diligence are glorious. We know that--

  * Bringing souls unto the Lord is "the thing which will be of the most worth unto you." ([D&amp;C 16:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/16.6?lang=eng#5).)

  * By proclaiming the gospel "thou wilt do the greatest good unto thy fellow beings, and wilt promote the glory of him who is your Lord." ([D&amp;C 81:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/81.4?lang=eng#3).)

  * Those who seek to bring forth Zion "shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost." ([1 Ne. 13:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/13.37?lang=eng#36).)

  * Faithful servants will be "crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life." ([D&amp;C 75:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/75.5?lang=eng#4).)

  * Great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" ([D&amp;C 18:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.16?lang=eng#15).)

Brethren, let me state it clearly and pointedly. Working for the salvation of
others is essential for our own salvation. You cannot fully magnify your
calling according to the oath and covenant of the priesthood unless you are
actively engaged in this work of salvation, for the priesthood is conferred on
you as an instrument of service.

Elder Bruce R. McConkie once said: "This call to missionary service does not
leave us any choice or option as to the course we should pursue. It is not
merely a permissive invitation which allows us to spread the gospel message on
a voluntary basis, or if we find it convenient to do so. The decree is
mandatory. We have no choice about it, if we are to retain the favor of God."
(In Conference Report, Oct. 1960, p. 54.)

Young men, do you understand why President Spencer W. Kimball said that "every
young man should fill a mission"? (_Ensign,_ Oct. 1974, p. 8.) It is not an
option; it is your obligation to serve. And do you mature couples understand
that President Kimball has made it clear that you also have this
responsibility? (See _The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball,_ ed. Edward L.
Kimball, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1982, p. 551.) He said, "The time is at
hand to go." (_Go Ye into All the World,_ text from a film produced by Brigham
Young University Department of Motion Picture Production, Provo: Brigham Young
University, 1974, p. 2.) This service is as much for your benefit as it is for
the benefit of the Church and the nonmembers who receive your message. We are
grateful for the increasing numbers of young men and couples who are serving
missions. We assure you that there is no more important thing you can do than
prepare for a mission by prayerfully studying the scriptures, keeping
yourselves morally clean, and conducting your temporal and spiritual lives
with the goal of a mission firmly in mind.

I have tried to teach you according to your covenants as members of the Church
and as priesthood bearers. I urge you to prayerfully ask the Lord for a
testimony of the covenant you have assumed to preach the gospel. Then, as you
keep all the "covenants by which ye are bound," the Lord "will cause the
heavens to shake for your good." ([D&amp;C
35:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/35.24?lang=eng#23).)

I know that the responsibility and opportunity of missionary service is the
most worthwhile thing we can do. The blessings must be experienced to be
appreciated.

I conclude with the Prophet Joseph Smith's question: "Brethren, shall we not
go on in so great a cause?" ([D&amp;C 128:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/128.22?lang=eng#21).) In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

