# Beware of Pride

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice to be with you in another glorious
general conference of the Church. How grateful I am for the love, prayers, and
service of the devoted members of the Church throughout the world.

May I commend you faithful Saints who are striving to flood the earth and your
lives with the Book of Mormon. Not only must we move forward in a monumental
manner more copies of the Book of Mormon, but we must move boldly forward into
our own lives and throughout the earth more of its marvelous messages.

This sacred volume was written for us--for our day. Its scriptures are to be
likened unto ourselves. (See [1 Ne.
19:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/19.23?lang=eng#22).)

The Doctrine and Covenants tells us that the Book of Mormon is the "record of
a fallen people." ([D&amp;C 20:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/20.9?lang=eng#8).) Why did they fall? This is one of the major
messages of the Book of Mormon. Mormon gives the answer in the closing
chapters of the book in these words: "Behold, the pride of this nation, or the
people of the Nephites, hath proven their destruction." ([Moro.
8:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.27?lang=eng#26).) And then,
lest we miss that momentous Book of Mormon message from that fallen people,
the Lord warns us in the Doctrine and Covenants, "Beware of pride, lest ye
become as the Nephites of old." ([D&amp;C
38:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/38.39?lang=eng#38).)

I earnestly seek an interest in your faith and prayers as I strive to bring
forth light on this Book of Mormon message--the sin of pride. This message has
been weighing heavily on my soul for some time. I know the Lord wants this
message delivered now.

In the premortal council, it was pride that felled Lucifer, "a son of the
morning." ([2 Ne.
24:12-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/24.12-15?lang=eng#11); see
also [D&amp;C 76:25-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/76.25-27?lang=eng#24); [Moses
4:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.3?lang=eng#2).) At the end of
this world, when God cleanses the earth by fire, the proud will be burned as
stubble and the meek shall inherit the earth. (See [3 Ne.
12:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.5?lang=eng#4), [3 Ne.
25:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/25.1?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C
29:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/29.9?lang=eng#8); [JS--H
1:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.37?lang=eng#36); [Mal.
4:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/mal/4.1?lang=eng#0).)

Three times in the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord uses the phrase "beware of
pride," including a warning to the second elder of the Church, Oliver Cowdery,
and to Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet. ([D&amp;C
23:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/23.1?lang=eng#0); see
also [D&amp;C 25:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/25.14?lang=eng#13); [D&amp;C
38:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/38.39?lang=eng#38).)

Pride is a very misunderstood sin, and many are sinning in ignorance. (See
[Mosiah 3:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.11?lang=eng#10); [3
Ne. 6:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/6.18?lang=eng#17).) In the
scriptures there is no such thing as righteous pride--it is always considered
a sin. Therefore, no matter how the world uses the term, we must understand
how God uses the term so we can understand the language of holy writ and
profit thereby. (See [2 Ne.
4:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/4.15?lang=eng#14); [Mosiah
1:3-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/1.3-7?lang=eng#2); [Alma
5:61](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.61?lang=eng#60).)

Most of us think of pride as self-centeredness, conceit, boastfulness,
arrogance, or haughtiness. All of these are elements of the sin, but the
heart, or core, is still missing.

The central feature of pride is enmity--enmity toward God and enmity toward
our fellowmen. _Enmity_ means "hatred toward, hostility to, or a state of
opposition." It is the power by which Satan wishes to reign over us.

Pride is essentially competitive in nature. We pit our will against God's.
When we direct our pride toward God, it is in the spirit of "my will and not
thine be done." As Paul said, they "seek their own, not the things which are
Jesus Christ's." ([Philip.
2:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/2.21?lang=eng#20).)

Our will in competition to God's will allows desires, appetites, and passions
to go unbridled. (See [Alma
38:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.12?lang=eng#11); [3 Ne.
12:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.30?lang=eng#29).)

The proud cannot accept the authority of God giving direction to their lives.
(See [Hel. 12:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/12.6?lang=eng#5).)
They pit their perceptions of truth against God's great knowledge, their
abilities versus God's priesthood power, their accomplishments against His
mighty works.

Our enmity toward God takes on many labels, such as rebellion, hard-
heartedness, stiff-neckedness, unrepentant, puffed up, easily offended, and
sign seekers. The proud wish God would agree with them. They aren't interested
in changing their opinions to agree with God's.

Another major portion of this very prevalent sin of pride is enmity toward our
fellowmen. We are tempted daily to elevate ourselves above others and diminish
them. (See [Hel.
6:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/6.17?lang=eng#16); [D&amp;C
58:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/58.41?lang=eng#40).)

The proud make every man their adversary by pitting their intellects,
opinions, works, wealth, talents, or any other worldly measuring device
against others. In the words of C. S. Lewis: "Pride gets no pleasure out of
having something, only out of having more of it than the next man. ... It is the
comparison that makes you proud: the pleasure of being above the rest. Once
the element of competition has gone, pride has gone." (_Mere Christianity,_
New York: Macmillan, 1952, pp. 109-10.)

In the pre-earthly council, Lucifer placed his proposal in competition with
the Father's plan as advocated by Jesus Christ. (See [Moses
4:1-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.1-3?lang=eng#0).) He wished
to be honored above all others. (See [2 Ne.
24:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/24.13?lang=eng#12).) In short,
his prideful desire was to dethrone God. (See [D&amp;C
29:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/29.36?lang=eng#35);
[D&amp;C 76:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/76.28?lang=eng#27).)

The scriptures abound with evidences of the severe consequences of the sin of
pride to individuals, groups, cities, and nations. "Pride goeth before
destruction." ([Prov.
16:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/16.18?lang=eng#17).) It
destroyed the Nephite nation and the city of Sodom. (See [Moro.
8:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.27?lang=eng#26); [Ezek.
16:49-50](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezek/16.49-50?lang=eng#48).)

It was through pride that Christ was crucified. The Pharisees were wroth
because Jesus claimed to be the Son of God, which was a threat to their
position, and so they plotted His death. (See [John
11:53](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/11.53?lang=eng#52).)

Saul became an enemy to David through pride. He was jealous because the crowds
of Israelite women were singing that "Saul hath slain his thousands, and David
his ten thousands." ([1 Sam.
18:6-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-sam/18.6-8?lang=eng#5).)

The proud stand more in fear of men's judgment than of God's judgment. (See
[D&amp;C 3:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/3.6-7?lang=eng#5); [D&amp;C
30:1-2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/30.1-2?lang=eng#0);
[D&amp;C 60:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/60.2?lang=eng#1).) "What will men think of me?" weighs heavier
than "What will God think of me?"

King Noah was about to free the prophet Abinadi, but an appeal to his pride by
his wicked priests sent Abinadi to the flames. (See [Mosiah
17:11-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/17.11-12?lang=eng#10).)
Herod sorrowed at the request of his wife to behead John the Baptist. But his
prideful desire to look good to "them which sat with him at meat" caused him
to kill John. ([Matt.
14:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/14.9?lang=eng#8); see also [Mark
6:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/6.26?lang=eng#25).)

Fear of men's judgment manifests itself in competition for men's approval. The
proud love "the praise of men more than the praise of God." ([John
12:42-43](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/12.42-43?lang=eng#41).) Our
motives for the things we do are where the sin is manifest. Jesus said He did
"always those things" that pleased God. ([John
8:29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/8.29?lang=eng#28).) Would we not
do well to have the pleasing of God as our motive rather than to try to
elevate ourselves above our brother and outdo another?

Some prideful people are not so concerned as to whether their wages meet their
needs as they are that their wages are more than someone else's. Their reward
is being a cut above the rest. This is the enmity of pride.

When pride has a hold on our hearts, we lose our independence of the world and
deliver our freedoms to the bondage of men's judgment. The world shouts louder
than the whisperings of the Holy Ghost. The reasoning of men overrides the
revelations of God, and the proud let go of the iron rod. (See [1 Ne.
8:19-28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/8.19-28?lang=eng#18); [1 Ne.
11:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.25?lang=eng#24); [1 Ne.
15:23-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.23-24?lang=eng#22).)

Pride is a sin that can readily be seen in others but is rarely admitted in
ourselves. Most of us consider pride to be a sin of those on the top, such as
the rich and the learned, looking down at the rest of us. (See [2 Ne.
9:42](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.42?lang=eng#41).) There is,
however, a far more common ailment among us--and that is pride from the bottom
looking up. It is manifest in so many ways, such as faultfinding, gossiping,
backbiting, murmuring, living beyond our means, envying, coveting, withholding
gratitude and praise that might lift another, and being unforgiving and
jealous.

Disobedience is essentially a prideful power struggle against someone in
authority over us. It can be a parent, a priesthood leader, a teacher, or
ultimately God. A proud person hates the fact that someone is above him. He
thinks this lowers his position.

Selfishness is one of the more common faces of pride. "How everything affects
me" is the center of all that matters--self-conceit, self-pity, worldly self-
fulfillment, self-gratification, and self-seeking.

Pride results in secret combinations which are built up to get power, gain,
and glory of the world. (See [Hel.
7:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/7.5?lang=eng#4); [Ether 8:9, 16,
22-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/8.9%2C16%2C22-23?lang=eng#8);
[Moses 5:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.31?lang=eng#30).) This
fruit of the sin of pride, namely secret combinations, brought down both the
Jaredite and the Nephite civilizations and has been and will yet be the cause
of the fall of many nations. (See [Ether
8:18-25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/8.18-25?lang=eng#17).)

Another face of pride is contention. Arguments, fights, unrighteous dominion,
generation gaps, divorces, spouse abuse, riots, and disturbances all fall into
this category of pride.

Contention in our families drives the Spirit of the Lord away. It also drives
many of our family members away. Contention ranges from a hostile spoken word
to worldwide conflicts. The scriptures tell us that "only by pride cometh
contention." ([Prov.
13:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/13.10?lang=eng#9); see also
[Prov. 28:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/28.25?lang=eng#24).)

The scriptures testify that the proud are easily offended and hold grudges.
(See [1 Ne.
16:1-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/16.1-3?lang=eng#0).) They
withhold forgiveness to keep another in their debt and to justify their
injured feelings.

The proud do not receive counsel or correction easily. (See [Prov.
15:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/15.10?lang=eng#9); [Amos
5:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/amos/5.10?lang=eng#9).) Defensiveness
is used by them to justify and rationalize their frailties and failures. (See
[Matt. 3:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/3.9?lang=eng#8); [John
6:30-59](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/6.30-59?lang=eng#29).)

The proud depend upon the world to tell them whether they have value or not.
Their self-esteem is determined by where they are judged to be on the ladders
of worldly success. They feel worthwhile as individuals if the numbers beneath
them in achievement, talent, beauty, or intellect are large enough. Pride is
ugly. It says, "If you succeed, I am a failure."

If we love God, do His will, and fear His judgment more than men's, we will
have self-esteem.

Pride is a damning sin in the true sense of that word. It limits or stops
progression. (See [Alma
12:10-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.10-11?lang=eng#9).) The
proud are not easily taught. (See [1 Ne. 15:3,
7-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.3%2C7-11?lang=eng#2).) They
won't change their minds to accept truths, because to do so implies they have
been wrong.

Pride adversely affects all our relationships--our relationship with God and
His servants, between husband and wife, parent and child, employer and
employee, teacher and student, and all mankind. Our degree of pride determines
how we treat our God and our brothers and sisters. Christ wants to lift us to
where He is. Do we desire to do the same for others?

Pride fades our feelings of sonship to God and brotherhood to man. It
separates and divides us by "ranks," according to our "riches" and our
"chances for learning." ([3 Ne.
6:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/6.12?lang=eng#11).) Unity is
impossible for a proud people, and unless we are one we are not the Lord's.
(See [Mosiah
18:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.21?lang=eng#20); [D&amp;C
38:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/38.27?lang=eng#26);
[D&amp;C 105:2-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/105.2-4?lang=eng#1); [Moses
7:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.18?lang=eng#17).)

Think of what pride has cost us in the past and what it is now costing us in
our own lives, our families, and the Church.

Think of the repentance that could take place with lives changed, marriages
preserved, and homes strengthened, if pride did not keep us from confessing
our sins and forsaking them. (See [D&amp;C
58:43](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/58.43?lang=eng#42).)

Think of the many who are less active members of the Church because they were
offended and their pride will not allow them to forgive or fully sup at the
Lord's table.

Think of the tens of thousands of additional young men and couples who could
be on missions except for the pride that keeps them from yielding their hearts
unto God. (See [Alma
10:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/10.6?lang=eng#5); [Hel.
3:34-35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/3.34-35?lang=eng#33).)

Think how temple work would increase if the time spent in this godly service
were more important than the many prideful pursuits that compete for our time.

Pride affects all of us at various times and in various degrees. Now you can
see why the building in Lehi's dream that represents the pride of the world
was large and spacious and great was the multitude that did enter into it.
(See [1 Ne. 8:26,
33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/8.26%2C33?lang=eng#25); [1 Ne.
11:35-36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.35-36?lang=eng#34).)

Pride is the universal sin, the great vice. Yes, pride _is_ the universal sin,
the great vice.

The antidote for pride is humility--meekness, submissiveness. (See [Alma
7:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.23?lang=eng#22).) It is the
broken heart and contrite spirit. (See [3 Ne.
9:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/9.20?lang=eng#19); [3 Ne.
12:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.19?lang=eng#18); [D&amp;C
20:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.37?lang=eng#36);
[D&amp;C 59:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/59.8?lang=eng#7); [Ps.
34:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/34.18?lang=eng#17); [Isa.
57:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/57.15?lang=eng#14); [Isa.
66:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/66.2?lang=eng#1).) As Rudyard
Kipling put it so well:

_The tumult and the shouting dies;_

_The captains and the kings depart._

_Still stands thine ancient sacrifice,_

_An humble and a contrite heart._

_Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,_

_Lest we forget, lest we forget._

God will have a humble people. Either we can choose to be humble or we can be
compelled to be humble. Alma said, "Blessed are they who humble themselves
without being compelled to be humble." ([Alma
32:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.16?lang=eng#15).)

Let us choose to be humble.

We can choose to humble ourselves by conquering enmity toward our brothers and
sisters, esteeming them as ourselves, and lifting them as high or higher than
we are. (See [D&amp;C 38:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/38.24?lang=eng#23); [D&amp;C 81:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/81.5?lang=eng#4); [D&amp;C
84:106](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.106?lang=eng#105).)

We can choose to humble ourselves by receiving counsel and chastisement. (See
[Jacob 4:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.10?lang=eng#9); [Hel.
15:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/15.3?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C
63:55](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/63.55?lang=eng#54);
[D&amp;C 101:4-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/101.4-5?lang=eng#3); [D&amp;C
108:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/108.1?lang=eng#0);
[D&amp;C 124:61, 84](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/124.61%2C84?lang=eng#60); [D&amp;C
136:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/136.31?lang=eng#30);
[Prov. 9:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/9.8?lang=eng#7).)

We can choose to humble ourselves by forgiving those who have offended us.
(See [3 Ne. 13:11,
14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/13.11%2C14?lang=eng#10); [D&amp;C
64:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.10?lang=eng#9).)

We can choose to humble ourselves by rendering selfless service. (See [Mosiah
2:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.16-17?lang=eng#15).)

We can choose to humble ourselves by going on missions and preaching the word
that can humble others. (See [Alma
4:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/4.19?lang=eng#18); [Alma
31:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/31.5?lang=eng#4); [Alma
48:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/48.20?lang=eng#19).)

We can choose to humble ourselves by getting to the temple more frequently.

We can choose to humble ourselves by confessing and forsaking our sins and
being born of God. (See [D&amp;C 58:43](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/58.43?lang=eng#42); [Mosiah
27:25-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/27.25-26?lang=eng#24);
[Alma 5:7-14,
49](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.7-14%2C49?lang=eng#6).)

We can choose to humble ourselves by loving God, submitting our will to His,
and putting Him first in our lives. (See [3 Ne.
11:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.11?lang=eng#10); [3 Ne.
13:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/13.33?lang=eng#32); [Moro.
10:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.32?lang=eng#31).)

Let us choose to be humble. We can do it. I know we can.

My dear brethren and sisters, we must prepare to redeem Zion. It was
essentially the sin of pride that kept us from establishing Zion in the days
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It was the same sin of pride that brought
consecration to an end among the Nephites. (See [4 Ne.
1:24-25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/4-ne/1.24-25?lang=eng#23).)

Pride is the great stumbling block to Zion. I repeat: Pride _is_ the great
stumbling block to Zion.

We must cleanse the inner vessel by conquering pride. (See [Alma
6:2-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/6.2-4?lang=eng#1); [Matt.
23:25-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/23.25-26?lang=eng#24).)

We must yield "to the enticings of the Holy Spirit," put off the prideful
"natural man," become "a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord," and
become "as a child, submissive, meek, humble." ([Mosiah
3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18); see also
[Alma 13:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.28?lang=eng#27).)

That we may do so and go on to fulfill our divine destiny is my fervent prayer
in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

