# True Religion

Not long ago I read a report of an interview with a man of some national
importance. In giving his views on a question of present-day concern he made
this comment: "I am not a religious man, but there was something about the
circumstances of the proposed action that did not strike me as being right."
His comment made me wonder why he associated religion with the social and
political subject he was talking about, and it also made me wonder why he
thought he was not a religious person. The answer to these queries, I suppose,
lies in the definition of religion.

The word _religion_ has no one generally accepted definition. Sometimes it is
used in reference to worship, whether it be public or private, and sometimes
to distinguish between things sacred and those that are profane or worldly.
Belief in the immortality of the soul is a concept that is looked upon by some
as religious, and one of the most common uses of the term is the belief in
deity or deities--a worship of God. The word _religion_ is often associated
with the pursuit of what is commonly called salvation, and sometimes with
revelation from a divine source.

Not long after the organization of the Church, Joseph Smith published answers
to a long list of questions that had been asked of him. One of the questions
was this: "What are the fundamental principles of your religion?" To that
question, Joseph Smith replied: "The fundamental principles of our religion
are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ, that
he died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven;
and all other things which pertain to our religion are only appendages to it."
(_History of the Church,_ 3:30.)

On many subjects we are often able to find definitions in the scriptures, but
it is interesting to note that even though we think of the Bible as a
religious treatise, the word _religion_ does not appear in the Old Testament,
and in the writings of the New Testament it is used on three occasions only. I
would like to make reference to these three.

The first use of the word _religion_ is by Paul as he presented his defense
before King Agrippa. He said to Agrippa: "After the most straitest sect of our
religion I lived a Pharisee" ([Acts
26:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/26.5?lang=eng#4)). He was
referring to the three sects of the Jews: the Pharisees, Sadducees, and
Essenes. He said he lived a Pharisee--the sect of the three that was the
strictest in religious practices. Paul was not talking about a religious creed
or a belief, but rather the form of worship, because the Jews placed great
stress on practice rather than doctrine--on ritualistic worship rather than a
creed of belief.

The second use of the word _religion_ was also by Paul, in writing to the
Galatians. He made this statement: "For ye have heard of my conversation in
time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the
church" ([Gal. 1:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/1.13?lang=eng#12)).
We well know of the persecutions inflicted by Paul upon those who followed
Christ and professed to be Christians and wonder why he did these things. What
caused him to take such a ruthless course? Paul answers these questions by
stating that he had practiced the religion of his fathers--a religion of iron
rules, laws, and traditions inherited from his Hebrew lineage. These iron
rules of practice are what caused him to relentlessly persecute the followers
of Christ. Thus, in writing to the Galatians he referred to religion in the
same manner as he did before King Agrippa, as rules of practice rather than
doctrine or a creed of belief.

Now we come to the third instance in the New Testament of the use of the word
_religion._ It is in the Epistle of James, written "to the twelve tribes which
are scattered abroad" ([James
1:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.1?lang=eng#0)), probably
meaning to all Israel, in which he said: "If any man among you seem to be
religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this
man's religion is vain" ([James
1:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.26?lang=eng#25)). James seems
to be using the term _religion_ in the manner used by Paul, as being
ritualistic or ceremonial--that if a man is ritualistic in this manner, yet
fails to be guarded in what he says, his rituals are in vain.

James then very pointedly defines what he refers to as pure religion, as
distinguished from forms of ritualistic worship and iron rules of practice as
described by Paul. James said: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the
Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to
keep himself unspotted from the world" ([James
1:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.27?lang=eng#26)). The wording
is simple and unpretentious, yet the meaning is profound and has deep
significance. The words "visit the fatherless and widows" are a reminder that
we should have compassion for our neighbor--our fellowmen. This is the
teaching of the Master in his frequent reference to love. The Lord said: "Thou
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" ([Matt.
22:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/22.39?lang=eng#38)). This is
what James was expressing--a love for, and devotion to, God, by compassionate
service to fellowmen. He used as examples the fatherless and the widows.

The second element of the definition of religion stated by James is to keep
"unspotted from the world." To be unspotted from the world simply means being
unworldly and free from the pollution of sin and unrighteousness. Paul said
something about this also in his writing to the Romans: "Be not conformed to
this world" ([Rom.
12:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/12.2?lang=eng#1)).

In short, James tells us that true religion is a devotion to God, demonstrated
by love and compassion for fellowmen, coupled with unworldliness. Such a
statement seems too simple to be sufficient, but in its simplicity it speaks
an important truth. Restated it may be said that true religion consists not
only in refraining from evil (that is, remaining unspotted), but in
deliberately and purposefully doing acts of kindness and service to others.

King Benjamin recognized this principle as he spoke to his people from the
tower. He reminded them that he had spent his days in their service and said:
"I do not desire to boast, for I have only been in the service of God.

"And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may
learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the
service of your God." ([Mosiah
2:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.16-17?lang=eng#15).)

Matthew puts it this way: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least
of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" ([Matt.
25:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.40?lang=eng#39)).

The life of the Prophet Joseph Smith portrays these same attributes--service
to friends, to his fellowmen, to all mankind, and to his God. It was during
the last two hours of his life, confined behind bars in Carthage, that his
close friend, President John Taylor, sang a song to cheer him on that
melancholy occasion. The song has a number of verses commencing with helping
the unfortunate and sharing a crust with one perishing for want of bread.
These are some of the words:

_A poor wayfaring man of grief_

_Had often crossed me on my way,_

_Who sued so humbly for relief_

_That I could never answer, Nay._

_I had not power to ask his name;_

_Whither he went or whence he came;_

_Yet there was something in his eye_

_That won my love, I knew not why._

_Once, when my scanty meal was spread,_ _He entered--not a word he spake._

_Just perishing for want of bread;_

_I gave him all; he blessed it, brake._

_And ate, but gave me part again;_

_Mine was an angel's portion then,_

_For while I fed with eager haste,_

_The crust was manna to my taste._

The verses continue to tell of a drink given to quench the thirst of a
sufferer, clothing and rest for the naked and weary, caring for the injured
and wounded, sharing the condemnation of a prisoner. Then the last verses
recognize the appearance of the Master:

_Then in a moment to my view,_

_The stranger started from disguise:_

_The tokens in his hands I knew,_

_The Savior stood before mine eyes._

_He spake--and my poor name he named--_

_"Of me thou hast not been asham'd;_

_These deeds shall thy memorial be;_

_Fear not thou didst them unto me."_

Poor, indeed, and destitute is the man who disclaims being religious because
he does not have sufficient love for his fellowmen to be concerned and have
compassion. The Lord will say: "Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least
of these, ye did it not to me.

"And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into
life eternal." ([Matt.
25:45-46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.45-46?lang=eng#44).)

President Joseph F. Smith, a former president of the Church, wrote these words
many years ago: "Do not say that you are not naturally religious, and so make
that an excuse for evil deeds and forbidden acts. ... Be rather religious both
in appearance and in reality, remembering what true religion means. Even as
the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy, so is the possession of the
knowledge that you love purity, righteousness, honesty, justice and well-
doing, an indisputable evidence that you are naturally religious."

President Smith continued: "Search your hearts, and you will find deep down
that you possess this knowledge. Then encourage its growth and development, to
the gaining of your own salvation." ("Not Naturally Religious," _Improvement
Era,_ Apr. 1906, p. 495.)

I pray we may serve our fellowmen and remain unspotted from worldly
influences, so that we may be worthy to be considered truly religious and
receive the approbation of the Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

