# Profanity and Swearing

Which of the Lord's Ten Commandments is probably broken the most frequently? I
believe it would be taking the name of God in vain. (See [Ex.
20:7](/scriptures/ot/ex/20.7?lang=eng#6).)

Today I should like to treat the important subject of profanity and swearing.

According to _Modern Guide to Synonyms_ (p. 469), _profanity, blasphemy,
cursing, obscenity, swearing,_ and _vulgarity_ all refer to crude or foul
language. Profanity and blasphemy usually refer to the irreverent use of the
name of Deity.

Socrates said to a young man who was introduced to him, "Talk in order that I
may see you." (_Communication of Ideas,_ p. 72.)

We reveal ourselves with our speech. Shakespeare urged in _King Lear,_ "Mend
your speech a little, lest it may mar your fortunes." (act 1, sc. 1, line 96.)
If we err, then remember the words of Confucius: "A man who has committed a
mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake." (_Vital
Quotations,_ sel. Emerson Roy West, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1968, p. 228.)

I desire to read to you many of the Lord's words given through his prophets
over the years so we might understand and think as he does regarding improper
words.

"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will
not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." ([Ex.
20:7](/scriptures/ot/ex/20.7?lang=eng#6).)

"But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy
communication out of your mouth." ([Col.
3:8](/scriptures/nt/col/3.8?lang=eng#7).)

Have we ever asked ourselves what is the harm or end result of swearing?
Jeremiah expresses one thought about it in this way:

"For because of swearing the land mourneth; the pleasant places of the
wilderness are dried up." ([Jer. 23:10](/scriptures/ot/jer/23.10?lang=eng#9).)

President McKay speaks clearly regarding profane language: "No parent can
consistently teach faith in Christ who profanes the name of Deity. Profanity
is never heard in the well-ordered home. Swearing is a vice that bespeaks a
low standard of breeding. Blasphemous exclamations drive out all spirit of
reverence." (_Gospel Ideals,_ Salt Lake City: _Improvement Era, _1953, p.
420.)

Judith Martin of the _Washington Post_ writes the article "Miss Manners,"
which is syndicated in seventy-five other newspapers. She says regarding
rudeness of speech:

"How does one deal with a rude person? Politely. I don't believe in answering
rudeness with rudeness under any circumstances.

"How is that accomplished? With the stare or smile. I do not recommend the
snappy comeback and putdown." (_People Magazine,_ Aug. 1982, p. 38.)

Politeness achieves much more than answering rudeness with rudeness. "Be
patient in afflictions, _revile not against those that revile_." ([D&amp;C
31:9](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/31.9?lang=eng#8); italics added.)

The Lord speaks with clarity on this subject through his prophets. President
Joseph Fielding Smith states: "Profanity is filthiness. A person is known as
much by his language as he is by the company he keeps. ... Filthiness in any
form is degrading and soul-destroying and should be avoided." (_Doctrines of
Salvation,_ Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1:13.)

If we are not most careful with our thoughts and speech, the words we use will
use us. Language has its own ethics, and one who communicates truth is like a
bright light in the darkness. We must nurture language like that.

How interesting it is to hear nonmembers of the Church express their feelings
about bad language. I like very much the title and comments used by Bob Greene
of the Field Newspaper Syndicate who speaks of swearing in these terms. The
title he uses is "_Hear_ Pollution."

"Obscenity, the open use of which used to be a mark of lower social strata,
has somehow become acceptable in everyday conversation for everyday people.

"And yet, I am offended--not out of a sense of morality or of prudishness--but
because foul language used casually in public comes close to the idea of a
violation of privacy. I know that there are some around who feel assaulted by
hearing it. I chose that word very carefully; certain language is an assault
on the senses.

"Those who disagree are probably saying, 'after all, it's only words.' But
words are vehicles; they convey messages. And to some people, the message of
profanity is a message of ugliness and aggressiveness and a disrespect for
civil behavior.

"Bathroom and sexual obscenities can now be heard in certain popular songs on
the radio, and even some magazines and newspapers have begun to print language
that would have been unthinkable five years ago. This practice is usually
defended under the name of 'freedom.' But whose freedom is it? If the language
of ugliness becomes so much a part of our society that it is impossible to
escape no matter where one turns, then who is free and who isn't?"

These assaults on the senses and the messages they carry do not elevate--they
pull people down.

There is no place in this Church or in any of our families for pessimism or
negativism. We should be incurable optimists.

Irrespective of the condition of a person, he who is a cynic, a pessimist, or
negative has the least progress, happiness, and prosperity.

On the other hand, the Lord's way is that the optimist with faith, who is
positive, elevating, and edifying, is the individual in or out of the Church
who is the most progressive, happy, and prosperous. The Lord said:

"Therefore, strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your
prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings." ([D&amp;C
108:7](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/108.7?lang=eng#6).)

We should--

  * enlighten 
  * edify 
  * lift 
  * motivate 
  * elevate 
  * build and uplift 

_in all of our conversations and doings._

Now listen to the prophet's words as I read them, regarding encouraging,
lifting, and edifying:

"Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is
good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers."
([Eph. 4:29](/scriptures/nt/eph/4.29?lang=eng#28).)

"Cease to contend one with another; cease to speak evil one of another.

"... Let your words tend to edifying one another." ([D&amp;C
136:23-24](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/136.23-24?lang=eng#22).)

In the magazine _Success Unlimited,_ Dec. 1982, Dwight Chapin draws to our
attention a crucial aspect of creating only positive emotions:

"Every time a business in the service industry creates a negative emotion in
the mind of a customer or client, that individual will share his
dissatisfaction with an average of ten people before the emotion dissipates.

"The same research shows that a person who is impressed with a service will
share that positive emotion with an average of only three other people at
most. Given this situation it's obvious why negative news travels faster and
farther than positive news."

That gives us all the more reason to be uplifting and positive. Profane words
_never_ edify.

There is some value in this expression of an unknown author: "I shall return
again, for I like myself more when I am with you."

Peter and the associates of the Savior were greater because of the Savior. He
built them, lifted them, and treated them as they were to become.

The associates of Joseph Smith were greater because of Joseph Smith. He raised
them and strengthened them. So it has been with all the Presidents of the
Church--men are greater because of them.

Church leaders do _not_ spend time pulling down people or other institutions.
They proclaim their own truths and allow others to express themselves.

The Brethren of the First Presidency have upon their shoulders the heaviest
burden and responsibilities of any mortal--yet they are never heavyhearted;
one who enters their offices always leaves a better person than when he
entered.

The Lord's counsel is very clear: "Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken,
and hear my speech." ([Isa. 28:23](/scriptures/ot/isa/28.23?lang=eng#22).)

Do we really _listen_ as we read the scriptures? Do we really hear his voice,
hearken, and do his will? There are many who _do_ hear and follow him.

Here are some good examples of hearing and doing the Lord's counsel:

In 1974 there were only about eight or ten Brazilians serving missions. Then
President Kimball asked for more missionaries. By mid-1979 Brazil had over
five hundred full-time local missionaries serving, and Mexico had over seven
hundred.

They heard his counsel, did they not?

When I was a mission president in Central America some years ago, two of the
elders brought a Catholic Benedictine monk into my office.

He had noticed the _elevating nature_ of the Church due to an in-depth study
he and others had been commissioned to do of 243 different churches. This
study had been ordered by the Catholic church with honorable intent; they
wished to know the similarities of the 243 churches to see the possibilities
of more union and brotherhood.

After researching for over five years, they came to at least these two
conclusions:

  1. There were only two churches that had high moral values; one was The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
  2. There was only one church that followed all the prophetic utterances of old--in other words, accepted and followed all the Old and New Testament--that was the Mormons. 

This monk accepted the challenge to study the Book of Mormon and prayed to
have divine verification of its truthfulness. As a result, he accepted the
Savior by being baptized into this, His church.

He is now an active teacher in a high priests quorum in Central America.

He saw by investigation the edifying, lifting influence of the Church and
hearkened unto the voice of the Lord.

A prominent man who had not visited a certain northern Utah high school for
some two years attended a sports event and was appalled and offended by the
escalation of profanity and crude language he heard.

Parents, do we wonder where our families or children are hearing obscene,
crude, and foul words? Certainly _never_ in our homes, for our homes are next
to the temple in sacredness. They are an uplifting refuge, in which we
instruct our families as to what the Lord expects of us.

Self-control is an effective quality that lifts anyone above the crowd; a
memory of a self-controlled person will always be pleasant. We should never
lower our dignity by lowering our language. We don't ever repeat a profane
comment made by someone else. In the text _Teaching--No Greater Call_ we read
this regarding self-mastery:

"The height of a man's success is gauged by his self-mastery; the depth of his
failure by his self-abandonment. There is no other limitation in either
direction. And this law is the expression of eternal justice.

"He who cannot establish a dominion over himself will have no dominion over
others, he who masters himself shall be king." (As cited by Spencer W.
Kimball, _Improvement Era,_ June 1966, p. 525.)

Shouldn't we all have mastery over our tongues and words _all_ of the time,
and only elevate and edify?

We are in the presence of and being directed by living prophets. This is an
absolute truth. The Lord himself directs this, his only true and living
church, and I testify to this in the name of Jesus Christ, the Master, amen.

## References

