# “Yet Thou Art There”

What John and Paul wrote about God's creations and the plurality of worlds,
the restored gospel grandly affirms, declaring that "worlds without number"
have been created ([Moses 1:33](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.33?lang=eng#32); see
also [John 1:3](/scriptures/nt/john/1.3?lang=eng#2); [Heb.
1:2](/scriptures/nt/heb/1.2?lang=eng#1); [Heb.
11:3](/scriptures/nt/heb/11.3?lang=eng#2); [D&amp;C 93:10](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/93.10?lang=eng#9)). These gospel truths are very significant
assurances for us, situated as we are on this tiny "speck of sand" at the
outer edge of a minor galaxy, the Milky Way. Without the gospel's fulness, we
would appear to be living during one tick of the geological clock and in the
midst of unexplained vastness.

Nevertheless, our focus is to be on this planet, just as the Lord told Moses:

"But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto
you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away. ... Innumerable
are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and
I know them" ([Moses 1:35](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.35?lang=eng#34)).

Enoch, to whom the Lord revealed so much, praised God amid His vast creations,
exclaiming reassuringly, "Yet thou art there" ([Moses
7:30](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.30?lang=eng#29); see also [Jer.
10:12](/scriptures/ot/jer/10.12?lang=eng#11)).

This same special assurance can see each of us through all the seasons and
circumstances of our lives. A universal God is actually involved with our
small, individual universes of experience! In the midst of His vast dominions,
yet He numbers us, knows us, and loves us perfectly (see [Moses
1:35](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.35?lang=eng#34); [John
10:14](/scriptures/nt/john/10.14?lang=eng#13)).

Along with knowing that God is there, it is equally vital to know what He is
like, including His perfected attributes of justice and mercy. More mortals
die in ignorance of God's true character than die in actual defiance of Him.
Belief in the goodness and power of God is greatly facilitated by
understanding His plan of salvation with its crucial allowance for mankind's
moral agency, real moral agency--with real mistakes and with real
consequences! His plan includes real tests, real dilemmas, real anguish, and
real joy.

Even though he knew he had been called personally by a personal God, Enoch
wrestled with feelings of personal inadequacy (see [Moses
6:31](/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.31?lang=eng#30)). Enoch also wept over the human
condition, but he was told, "Lift up your heart, and be glad; and look"
([Moses 7:44](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.44?lang=eng#43)). If Enoch had not
looked and been spiritually informed, he would have seen the human condition
in isolation from the grand reality. If God were not there, Enoch's "Why?"
would have become an unanswered scream of despair!

At first, Enoch refused "to be comforted" ([Moses
7:44](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.44?lang=eng#43)). Finally, he saw God's plan,
the later coming of the Messiah in the meridian of time, and the eventual
triumph of God's purposes. Enoch saw how the throne of God features justice
and mercy (see [Moses 7:31](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.31?lang=eng#30)).

Significantly, the consequences of misused human agency were explained to
Enoch: mortals had been given a commandment to "love one another," yet those
then had become a people "without affection" who "hate their own blood"
([Moses 7:33](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.33?lang=eng#32)).

We, too, can "refuse to be comforted." We can wrongly charge God with that
large portion of human misery which is actually caused by mortals' failure to
keep His commandments. Or, like Enoch, we can be intellectually meek enough to
look and to accept the truths about God's being there and about His
personality and plans.

Alas, when the Lord gives us "line upon line" and "precept upon precept" about
Himself and His plans, many ignore these great gifts. Instead of lines, some
demand paragraphs and even pages. When God provides "here a little, and there
a little" ([Isa. 28:10](/scriptures/ot/isa/28.10?lang=eng#9)), some want a lot
--now!

Even so, the pages of scripture rustle with reassurances, such as were
tenderly given to Abraham:

"And he said unto me: My son, my son (and his hand was stretched out), behold
I will show you all these. And he put his hand upon mine eyes, and I saw those
things which his hands had made, which were many; and they multiplied before
mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof" ([Abr.
3:12](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.12?lang=eng#11)).

Whatever the scale of things, the Lord is there! Whether in speaking of how
sun, moon, and stars show "God moving in his majesty and power" ([D&amp;C
88:47](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.47?lang=eng#46)) or in describing the
lilies of the field as being better arrayed than Solomon in all his finery,
who is better qualified than the Creator to make such descriptions of the
heaven and such comparisons between raiment and flowers (see [Matt.
6:28-29](/scriptures/nt/matt/6.28-29?lang=eng#27))?

A solitary Samaritan woman was one of the very first to learn from His lips
that Jesus was in fact the Messiah. She marveled how Jesus "told me all things
that ever I did" ([John 4:29](/scriptures/nt/john/4.29?lang=eng#28)). Jesus
had been there in her life for a long time. To hasten recognition, the
resurrected Jesus told Peter where to lower his fishing nets to harvest a
particular school of fish (see [John
21:6-8](/scriptures/nt/john/21.6-8?lang=eng#5)). Deity called Samuel, Mary
Magdalene, Saul, and Joseph Smith by their first names (see [1 Sam.
3:4](/scriptures/ot/1-sam/3.4?lang=eng#3); [John
20:16](/scriptures/nt/john/20.16?lang=eng#15); [Acts
9:4](/scriptures/nt/acts/9.4?lang=eng#3); [JS--H
1:17](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.17?lang=eng#16)).

Macrolove with such micromanifestations!

God is not only there in the mildest expressions of His presence, but also in
those seemingly harsh expressions. For example, when truth "cutteth ... to the
very center" ([1 Ne. 16:2](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/16.2?lang=eng#1)), this may
signal that spiritual surgery is underway, painfully severing pride from the
soul.

God is there also when true but hard words break open the chained door of a
mind taken over by a single obsession. Sometimes, brothers and sisters,
instead of the mind's wrapping itself around an idea, an idea wraps itself
tightly around the mind--another way in which "pride compasseth ... about as
[with] a chain" ([Ps. 73:6](/scriptures/ot/ps/73.6?lang=eng#5)).

The Lord is truly there to chastise those whom He loves, including the
spiritually preeminent. The Brother of Jared for too long had failed to pray
(see [Ether 2:14](/scriptures/bofm/ether/2.14?lang=eng#13)). Even the good can
become careless without the Lord's being there to chasten. Later, the
chastened Brother of Jared saw Christ (see [Ether
3:13-16](/scriptures/bofm/ether/3.13-16?lang=eng#12))!

What we mortals encounter as the unforeseen, God has already seen, such as how
the oil deposits of this earth would shape the latter-day conflicts among
nations. God's "is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations" ([Isa.
14:26](/scriptures/ot/isa/14.26?lang=eng#25)). He likewise foresaw all the
awful famines, some resulting from the unwise, unnecessary erosions of
precious topsoil. He surely foresaw the terrible persecutions of the Jews.
Having created the earth, He has anticipated the impact of continental drifts
on the frequency and intensity of latter-day earthquakes. He who analogized
that "the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest" ([Isa.
57:20](/scriptures/ot/isa/57.20?lang=eng#19)) also knows where and when, in
latter days, the seas' tidal waves will heave themselves savagely "beyond
their bounds" ([D&amp;C 88:90](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.90?lang=eng#89)).

Without the revelations, however, the answers as to the why of our existence
and the why of human suffering would elude even the best intellectual
excursions:

"Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord. How unsearchable are
the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find
out all his ways. And no man knoweth of his ways save it be revealed unto him;
wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations of God" ([Jacob
4:8](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.8?lang=eng#7)).

The ultimate human questions are really the "why" questions! The gospel is
positively "brim" with answers to the "why" queries concerning human purpose.
Gospel truths are the vital integrating and ordering truths, not only telling
us of "things as they really are" but also "as they really will be" ([Jacob
4:13](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13?lang=eng#12)).

No wonder we should "live in thanksgiving daily" ([Alma
34:38](/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.38?lang=eng#37)) because "all things denote
there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of
it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their
regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator" ([Alma
30:44](/scriptures/bofm/alma/30.44?lang=eng#43)).

Furthermore, "all things which have been given of God from the beginning of
the world, unto man, are the typifying of [Christ]" ([2 Ne.
11:4](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/11.4?lang=eng#3)).

Providing adequate oxygen for us on this planet is a form of God's "lending
[us] breath," as in King Benjamin's litany ([Mosiah
2:21](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.21?lang=eng#20)). God keeps this planet
habitable, "preserving [us] from day to day" ([Mosiah
2:21](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.21?lang=eng#20)). Given all He has done, no
wonder we are, comparatively, "unprofitable servants" ([Mosiah
2:21](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.21?lang=eng#20)).

Even given our unprofitability, our Redeemer is still there. In fact, Jesus'
transcending service to us stretches back to premortal days. When God brought
before us His plan of salvation, Jesus was there, volunteering meekly and
humbly, "Here am I, send me" ([Abr.
3:27](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.27?lang=eng#26)), saying, "Father, thy will be
done, and the glory be thine forever" ([Moses
4:2](/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.2?lang=eng#1)). The Father, ever anxious that all
be free to choose, gave Lucifer opportunity to campaign:

"Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind,
that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me
thine honor" ([Moses 4:1](/scriptures/pgp/moses/4.1?lang=eng#0); see also
[Abr. 3:27](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.27?lang=eng#26); [Isa.
6:8](/scriptures/ot/isa/6.8?lang=eng#7)).

Note the ego dripping from only three lines: two _me_'s and four _I_'s. Those
vertical pronouns are usually accompanied by unbending knees, because the
proud, as in Jesus' parable, trust "in themselves that they [are] righteous,
and [despise] others" ([Luke 18:9](/scriptures/nt/luke/18.9?lang=eng#8)).

Long ago, it was also meek, loving, and redeeming Jesus who anticipated the
need to take the gospel to those in the spirit prison, including the wicked of
Noah's time when the "chosen hath pled before [God's] face" ([Moses
7:39](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.39?lang=eng#38)). Jesus has been there as our
long-suffering Shepherd for ages.

We need not be atop high mountains or in sacred groves for God to be there.
God is also there even in the mildest expressions of His presence.

Conscience permits the Lord to be there, whether in early warnings or final
warnings. He gives us a flash of insight or a twinge of remembrance, pulling
us back from a precipice or prompting us to do good. Conscience can warn that
we are only falling further behind by insisting on getting even. Conscience
warns us not to sink our cleats too deeply in mortal turf, which is so
dangerously artificial.

In a hundred ways, Deity will always be there, just as Enoch testified,
including in our suffering.

Some among us, desperately ill, know the loneliness of a hospital room by
night when loved ones have departed or are "sleeping for sorrow" ([Luke
22:45](/scriptures/nt/luke/22.45?lang=eng#44)), unable to "watch" another
"hour" ([Matt. 26:40](/scriptures/nt/matt/26.40?lang=eng#39)). The night
magnifies the stillness of the hospital corridors, as these individuals brush
against the veil of death. Even so, whether or not "appointed unto death"
([D&amp;C 42:48](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.48?lang=eng#47)), these
faithful are in His hands. They can and do know of God, "Yet thou art there!"

Widows and widowers whose deprivation stretches into years, when the caress of
dimmed memories is insufficient, sometimes sob to see purpose in it all.
However, they will later know moments when the Lord shall "wipe away tears
from off all faces" ([Isa. 25:8](/scriptures/ot/isa/25.8?lang=eng#7)).
Meanwhile, they can truly testify, "Yet thou art there!"

Wives and husbands whose lives are shattered by the betrayal of a deserting
spouse may feel forsaken or drenched by injustice. Yet they, too, can know,
"Thou art there," by responding to Jesus' invitation, "Come unto me, all ye
that ... are heavy laden" ([Matt.
11:28](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28?lang=eng#27)).

Parents, striving to reach and to rescue the truculent teenager, experiencing
disappointment after disappointment and wondering when it all will end, can be
assured, "Yet thou art there!"

To those of you who so suffer and who, nevertheless, so endure and so testify
by the eloquence of your examples, we salute you in Christ! Please forgive
those of us who clumsily try to comfort you. We know from whence your true
comfort comes. God's "bosom" is there to be leaned upon.

Jesus' promised peace is a special form of rest amid unrest. Even when other
things are in commotion, His disciples can still stand (see [D&amp;C 45:26,
32](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.26,32?lang=eng#25)). His disciples know the
Lord is there in latter-days. "I am he who led the children of Israel out of
the land of Egypt; and my arm is stretched out in the last days, to save my
people Israel" ([D&amp;C 136:22](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/136.22?lang=eng#21)).

We can confidently cast our cares upon the Lord because, through the agonizing
events of Gethsemane and Calvary, atoning Jesus is already familiar with our
sins, sicknesses, and sorrows (see [1 Pet.
5:7](/scriptures/nt/1-pet/5.7?lang=eng#6); [2 Ne.
9:21](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.21?lang=eng#20); [Alma
7:11-12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11-12?lang=eng#10)). He can carry them now
because He has successfully carried them before (see [2 Ne.
9:8](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.8?lang=eng#7))!

Yes, God's creations are "stretched out," but so is his redeeming arm (see
[Ex. 6:6](/scriptures/ot/ex/6.6?lang=eng#5); [Ps.
136:6](/scriptures/ot/ps/136.6?lang=eng#5))!

He who is ever there is perfect in His love. Moreover, "eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God
hath prepared for them that love him" ([1 Cor.
2:9](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/2.9?lang=eng#8); see also [Isa.
64:4](/scriptures/ot/isa/64.4?lang=eng#3)).

The Restoration is thus filled with such abundant assurances about God, about
life, about the universe, and about us.

As you and I dash about the wonder-filled landscape of the Restoration,
exclaiming and observing, it should not surprise us that our first impressions
are less than definitive. Little wonder that some of us mistake a cluster of
trees for the whole forest or that, in some of our joyful exclamations, there
are some unintended exaggerations.

Roving amid the tall timber of truth, the pervasive scent of pine is
inevitably upon us. Our pockets are bulging with souvenir rocks and cones. And
we are filled with childish glee. There is no way to survey it all--in one
tour or several. Besides, further familiarization will only increase our
wonder. After all, One not given to hyperbole used the word _marvelous_ to
describe the Restoration!

Further reconnoitering, in fact, produces a hushed expectancy because, one
day, the faithful will have it all. "The day cometh that ... all things shall be
revealed unto the children of men which ever have been ... and which ever will
be even unto the end of the earth" ([2 Ne.
27:11](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/27.11?lang=eng#10)).

Like Moses, Nephi was atop "exceedingly high mountains" and "beheld great
things ... too great for man" ([2 Ne.
4:25](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/4.25?lang=eng#24)). Like Enoch, Nephi cited the
attributes of God, who is there amid worlds without number, declaring:

"O how great the goodness of our God!" ([2 Ne.
9:10](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.10?lang=eng#9)).

"O the greatness of the mercy of our God!" ([2 Ne.
9:19](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.19?lang=eng#18)).

"O how great the plan of our God!" ([2 Ne.
9:13](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.13?lang=eng#12)).

Gladly and firmly, I add my small voice of witness to these wonderful
declarations of adoration, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen!

## References

