# “Come and See”

Very early in His ministry, two disciples came to Jesus and asked, "Master, ...
where dwellest thou?" Jesus' brief yet profound reply, "Come and see,"
provides the basis for my few poor remarks today (see [John
1:38-39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/1.38-39?lang=eng#37)).

"Come and see," come seeking to know Him, and I promise you will find Him and
see Him in His true character as the risen, redeeming Savior of the world.
"Come and see," and you will recognize Him as the Christ of the empty
sepulchre, the conqueror of Calvary, who broke the bands of death and rose
triumphant from the tomb, to bring immortality to all and eternal life to the
faithful. He is the "lamb without blemish and without spot," foreordained in
His messianic role "before the foundation of the world" ([1 Pet.
1:19-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/1.19-20?lang=eng#18)). "He
was wounded for our transgressions [and] bruised for our iniquities: ... with
his stripes we are healed" ([Isa.
53:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/53.5?lang=eng#4)).

"Come and see," and in your coming lay your burdens at His feet. Give away all
your sins that you might see and know Him (see [Alma
22:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/22.18?lang=eng#17)). "Come
unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden," He said, "and I will give
you rest.

"Take my yoke upon you and learn of me ... and ye shall find rest unto your
souls" ([Matt.
11:28-29](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28-29?lang=eng#27)). Come
unto Him, and He will take away your sins and heal your soul, though it be
sick with sin. He will replace hatred with love and selfishness with service.
He will strengthen your shoulders to better bear your burdens and give you new
courage and hope for the journey ahead.

"Come and see," and as you do so your eyes will be opened and you will
_really_ see, perhaps for the first time, who _you_ are, and who _He_ is. You
will come to see yourself as a child of God, of divine parentage, possessed of
infinite capacities to grow spiritually and become more like Him. You will
come to understand that God "hath made of one blood all nations of men for to
dwell on all the face of the earth" ([Acts
17:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/17.26?lang=eng#25)) and you will
see all men everywhere as your brothers and all women as your sisters, with
all that implies in terms of sibling responsibility. You will see that "he
denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and
female; ... and all are alike unto God" ([2 Ne.
26:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/26.33?lang=eng#32)).

"Come and see," and as you do so you will find His Church--The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a church directed on earth by living
prophets, seers, and revelators, but its head is no mortal man, but Jesus, the
Lord God Omnipotent Himself. As you "come and see," you will find a happy
people--an optimistic and joyful people--who, while struggling to overcome the
usual faults and foibles of humanity, yet strive to be better, to do good to
all men, to build the city of God wherein all may dwell together in
righteousness. As you "come and see," you will find a people with a deep and
abiding concern for the poor and the needy, a people who reach out a helping
hand to aid the widow and orphan, the sick and afflicted, the poor and
oppressed. "Come and see" the fruits of gospel living. Taste them for
yourself, and you will find them sweet and delicious. As you come to know
"that when ye are in the service of your fellow [men] ye are only in the
service of your God" ([Mosiah
2:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2.17?lang=eng#16)), you will
seek to wear out your life in the service of the Master.

I finish where I began: Jesus' statement "Come and see" provides both an
invitation and a promise to all people everywhere. Come to Him; see Him as
King of Kings and Lord of Lords; recognize in Him the great Messiah who will
come again with healing in His wings, to set His people free. He will wrap you
about in the cloak of His redeeming love, and your life will be changed
forever.

Of that I testify, as one of His servants, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

