# “Thus Shall My Church Be Called”

Today I would like to speak about a name. We are all pleased when our names
are pronounced and spelled correctly. Sometimes a nickname is used instead of
the real name. But a nickname may offend either the one named or the parents
who gave the name.

The name of which I shall speak is not a personal name, yet the same
principles apply. I refer to a name given by the Lord:

"Thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints." ([D&amp;C 115:4](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/115.4?lang=eng#3).)

Note carefully the language of the Lord. He did not say, "Thus shall my church
be _named._" He said, "Thus shall my church be _called._" Years ago, its
members were cautioned by the Brethren who wrote: "We feel that some may be
misled by the too frequent use of the term 'Mormon Church.'" (_Member-
Missionary Class--Instructor's Guide,_ Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1982, p. 2.) Before any other name is considered
to be a legitimate substitute, the thoughtful person might reverently consider
the feelings of the Heavenly Parent who bestowed that name.

Surely every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord is precious. So
each word in this name must be important--divinely designated for a reason. If
we study the key words in that name, we can better understand the name's full
significance.

## Saints

The last word in the title is _Saints._ I smile when I remember a comment made
after my call to the Quorum of the Twelve. A doctor friend relayed a report
made at a professional meeting that "Dr. Nelson was no longer practicing
cardiac surgery because his church had made him 'a saint.'"

Such a comment was not only amusing but revealing. It evidenced unfamiliarity
with the language of the Bible, in which the word _saint_ is used much more
frequently than is the term _Christian._

The word _Christian_ appears in only three verses of the King James Version of
the Bible. One verse describes the historical fact that "disciples were called
Christians first in Antioch" ([Acts
11:26](/scriptures/nt/acts/11.26?lang=eng#25)); another quotes a sarcastic
nonbeliever, King Agrippa (see [Acts
26:28](/scriptures/nt/acts/26.28?lang=eng#27)); and the third indicates that
one known as "a Christian" must be prepared to suffer ([1 Pet.
4:16](/scriptures/nt/1-pet/4.16?lang=eng#15)).

In contrast, the term _saint_ (or _saints_) appears in thirty-six verses of
the Old Testament and in sixty-two verses of the New Testament.

Paul addressed an epistle "to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the
faithful in Christ Jesus." ([Eph. 1:1](/scriptures/nt/eph/1.1?lang=eng#0).)

To recent converts there he said, "Ye are no more strangers and foreigners,
but fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God." ([Eph.
2:19](/scriptures/nt/eph/2.19?lang=eng#18); see also [Eph.
3:17-19](/scriptures/nt/eph/3.17-19?lang=eng#16).)

In his epistle to the Ephesians, Paul used the word _saint_ at least once in
every chapter!

Despite its use in ninety-eight verses of the Bible, the term _saint_ is still
not well understood. Some mistakenly think that it implies beatification or
perfection. Not so! A saint is a believer in Christ and knows of His perfect
love. The giving saint shares in a true spirit of that love, and the receiving
saint accepts in a true spirit of gratitude. A saint serves others, knowing
that the more one serves, the greater the opportunity for the Spirit to
sanctify and purify.

A saint is tolerant, and is attentive to the pleadings of other human beings,
not only to spoken messages but to unspoken messages as well. A saint is
different from an individual whose response to a concern might be a selfish
"What do _I_ care" attitude. A real saint responds, "What? I _do_ care!" _Do_
is an action verb, and it becomes the driving force in the reply of one who
will care for another in need. (See [1 Cor.
12:25-27](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/12.25-27?lang=eng#24); [2 Cor.
7:12](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/7.12?lang=eng#11).)

A saint "refrain[s] from idleness" ([Alma
38:12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.12?lang=eng#11)) and seeks learning by study,
and also by faith. Education not only helps in communication with others, but
it enables one to discern truth from error, particularly through studying the
scriptures. (See [D&amp;C 88:118](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.118?lang=eng#117).)

A saint is honest and kind, paying financial obligations promptly and fully,
treating others as she or he would want to be treated. (See [Matt.
7:12](/scriptures/nt/matt/7.12?lang=eng#11); [3 Ne.
14:12](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/14.12?lang=eng#11); [D&amp;C 112:11](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/112.11?lang=eng#10).)

A saint is an honorable citizen, knowing that the very country which provides
opportunity and protection deserves support, including prompt payment of taxes
and personal participation in its legal political process. (See [D&amp;C
134:5](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/134.5?lang=eng#4).)

A saint resolves any differences with others honorably and peacefully and is
constant in courtesy--even in traffic at the rush hour.

A saint shuns that which is unclean or degrading and avoids excess even of
that which is good.

Perhaps above all, a saint is reverent. Reverence for the Lord, for the earth
He created, for leaders, for the dignity of others, for the law, for the
sanctity of life, for chapels and other buildings, are all evidences of
saintly attitudes. (See [Lev. 19:30](/scriptures/ot/lev/19.30?lang=eng#29);
[Alma 47:22](/scriptures/bofm/alma/47.22?lang=eng#21); [D&amp;C
107:4](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/107.4?lang=eng#3); [D&amp;C
134:7](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/134.7?lang=eng#6).)

A reverent saint loves the Lord and gives highest priority to keeping His
commandments. Daily prayer, periodic fasting, payment of tithes and offerings
are privileges important to a faithful saint.

Finally, a saint is one who receives the gifts of the Spirit that God has
promised to all His faithful sons and daughters. (See [Joel
2:28-29](/scriptures/ot/joel/2.28-29?lang=eng#27); [Acts
2:17-18](/scriptures/nt/acts/2.17-18?lang=eng#16).)

## Latter-day

The term _latter-day_ is an expression especially difficult for translators
who labor in languages in which there is not a good equivalent term. Some
translations may suggest _last_ day.

It is true that scriptures foretell the final days of the earth's temporal
existence as a telestial sphere. The earth will then be renewed and receive
its paradisiacal, or terrestrial, glory. (See [A of F
1:10](/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.10?lang=eng#9).) Ultimately, the earth will
become celestialized. (See [Rev. 21:1](/scriptures/nt/rev/21.1?lang=eng#0);
[D&amp;C 77:1](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/77.1?lang=eng#0); [D&amp;C
88:25-26](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.25-26?lang=eng#24).) But its _last_
days must be preceded by its _latter_ days!

We live in those latter days, and they are really remarkable. The Lord's
Spirit is being poured out upon all inhabitants of the earth, precisely as the
Prophet Joel foretold. His prophecy was of such significance that the angel
Moroni reaffirmed it to the Prophet Joseph Smith. (See [Joel
2:28-32](/scriptures/ot/joel/2.28-32?lang=eng#27); [JS--H
1:41](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.41?lang=eng#40).)

For millennia, methods of farming, travel, and communication were largely
unchanged from ancient techniques. Developments since the birth of Joseph
Smith, however, have risen in remarkable contrast.

Joseph Smith had long been foreordained as God's prophet for the restoration
of the gospel in the fulness of times. (See [2 Ne.
3:7-15](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.7-15?lang=eng#6).) Twenty-five years after his
birth, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was officially
organized.

Later in that same century, the telegraph was developed, the Atlantic Ocean
was first crossed by a steamship, and the telephone, the automobile, and
motion pictures were invented.

The twentieth century has been even more extraordinary. Farming has become
mechanized.

Modern transportation allows travel to nearly any destination in the world
within a day or two.

Computers have been developed that allow the Church to serve living members
and to organize information relative to progenitors who live on the other side
of the veil. People throughout the world, once little concerned with family
history, now search for roots of their ancestral heritage using technologies
unavailable a century ago.

Long-distance telephone, telefax, radio, television, and satellite
communications have become routine. In these latter days it is possible for
the word of the Lord to be broadcast from world headquarters of His Church and
heard in the most remote areas of the globe.

The divine promise is being fulfilled that this restored "gospel shall be
preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people." ([D&amp;C
133:37](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.37?lang=eng#36).)

Political changes have occurred recently in many countries. Previous
restrictions of personal liberties have been relieved. The shell of spiritual
confinement has been shattered. Swelling shouts of freedom fill the air.
Surely the hand of the Lord is apparent. He said, "I will hasten my work in
its time" ([D&amp;C 88:73](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.73?lang=eng#72)),
and that time of hastening is now.

## Jesus Christ

By divine directive, the title of the Church bears the sacred name of Jesus
Christ, whose church this is. (See [D&amp;C 115:3-4](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/115.3-4?lang=eng#2).) He so decreed more than once. Nearly two
thousand years ago, the Lord said, "Ye shall _call_ the church in my name; ...

"And how be it my church save it be _called_ in my name?" ([3 Ne.
27:7-8](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.7-8?lang=eng#6); italics added.)

We worship God the Eternal Father in the name of His Son by the power of the
Holy Ghost. We know the premortal Jesus to be Jehovah, God of the Old
Testament. We know Him to be "the chief corner stone" upon which the
organization of His Church is based. ([Eph.
2:20](/scriptures/nt/eph/2.20?lang=eng#19).) We know Him to be the Rock from
whom revelation comes to His authorized agents (see [1 Cor.
10:4](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/10.4?lang=eng#3); [Hel.
5:12](/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.12?lang=eng#11)) and to all who worthily seek Him
(see [D&amp;C 88:63](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.63?lang=eng#62)).

We know that He came into the world to do the will of His Father, who sent
Him. (See [3 Ne. 27:13](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.13?lang=eng#12).) His divine
mission was to effect the Atonement, which was to break the bands of death and
enable us to receive immortality and eternal life.

The living Lord's divine mission still continues. One day we will stand before
Him in judgment. He has foretold that event:

"Whoso repenteth and is baptized in my name shall be filled; and if he
endureth to the end, behold, him will I hold guiltless before my Father at
that day when I shall stand to judge the world." ([3 Ne.
27:16](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.16?lang=eng#15).)

We revere the name of Jesus Christ. He is our risen Redeemer.

## The Church

The first two words of the name the Lord chose for His earthly organization
are _The Church._

Note that the article _The_ begins with a capital letter. This is an important
part of the title, for the Church is the official organization of baptized
believers who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ. (See [D&amp;C
10:67-69](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/10.67-69?lang=eng#66); [D&amp;C
18:21-25](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/18.21-25?lang=eng#20).)

The foundation of the Church is the reality that God is our Father and that
His Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ, is the Savior of the world. The witness
and inspiration of the Holy Ghost confirm those realities.

The Church is the way by which the Master accomplishes His work and bestows
His glory. Its ordinances and related covenants are the crowning rewards of
our membership. While many organizations can offer fellowship and fine
instruction, only His church can provide baptism, confirmation, ordination,
the sacrament, patriarchal blessings, and the ordinances of the temple--all
bestowed by authorized priesthood power. That power is destined to bless _all_
children of our Heavenly Father, regardless of their nationality:

"The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from
thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth." ([D&amp;C
65:2](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/65.2?lang=eng#1); see also [Dan.
2:37-45](/scriptures/ot/dan/2.37-45?lang=eng#36); [D&amp;C 109:72](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/109.72?lang=eng#71).)

Admission into His church is by baptism. This sacred ordinance is reserved
only for children after they reach the age of accountability and for adults
who are truly converted, prepared, and worthy to pass this scriptural test:

"Ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people,
and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light;

"Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those
that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times
and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in." ([Mosiah
18:8-9](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.8-9?lang=eng#7).)

Through the ordinance of baptism, we take upon ourselves the name of the Lord
and covenant to be saints in these latter days. We covenant to live by the
doctrines of the Church as recorded in sacred scriptures and as revealed to
prophets, ancient and modern.

"We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we
believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to
the Kingdom of God." ([A of F 1:9](/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.9?lang=eng#8).)

These revelations include fundamental truths essential to our everlasting
happiness and joy. They teach of priorities with eternal potential, such as
love of God, family, mother, father, children, and home; self-mastery; care of
the poor and needy; service; and thoughtful consideration for others.

This church, established under the direction of Almighty God, fulfills
promises made in biblical times. It is part of the "restitution of all things,
which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world
began." ([Acts 3:21](/scriptures/nt/acts/3.21?lang=eng#20).) It has been
restored and given a name by the Lord Himself.

He issued this solemn warning: "Let all men beware how they take my name in
their lips." "Remember," He added, "that which cometh from above is sacred,
and must be spoken with care." ([D&amp;C 63:61, 64](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/63.61,64?lang=eng#60).) Therefore, just as we revere His holy
name, we likewise revere the name that He decreed for His church.

As members of His church, we are privileged to participate in its divine
destiny. May we so honor Him who declared, "Thus shall my church be _called_ ...
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," I pray in the sacred name of
Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

