# Personal Integrity

In a revelation the Lord said, "Blessed is my servant Hyrum Smith; for I, the
Lord, love him because of the integrity of his heart, and because he loveth
that which is right." ([D&amp;C 124:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/124.15?lang=eng#14).) I personally know of no higher praise that
any man could receive.

I have felt impressed to speak today about the need for integrity--old-
fashioned, personal, practical integrity. To me, integrity means always doing
what is right and good, regardless of the immediate consequences. It means
being righteous from the very depth of our soul, not only in our actions but,
more importantly, in our thoughts and in our hearts. Personal integrity
implies such trustworthiness and incorruptibility that we are incapable of
being false to a trust or covenant.

We all have within us the ability to know what is right and good. Speaking to
the "peaceable followers of Christ" ([Moro.
7:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.3?lang=eng#2)), the prophet
Mormon said:

"It is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from evil; and the way
to judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect knowledge, as the
daylight is from the dark night.

"For behold, the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good
from evil; wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which
inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by
the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge
it is of God.

"But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ,
and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it
is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth
no man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who
subject themselves unto him." ([Moro.
7:15-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.15-17?lang=eng#14).)

Having received the Spirit of Christ to know good from evil, we should always
choose the good. We need not be misled, even though fraud, deception, deceit,
and duplicity often seem to be acceptable in our world. Lying, stealing, and
cheating are commonplace. Integrity, a firm adherence to the highest moral and
ethical standards, is essential to the life of a true Latter-day Saint.

Like Job of old, we need to say, "Till I die I will not remove mine integrity
from me." ([Job 27:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/27.5?lang=eng#4).)
Though he had lost almost everything he valued--his family, his friends, his
health, his wealth--he refused to give up his integrity. In sharp contrast,
many today trade away their integrity for a very small price tag. A person who
shoplifts for a candy bar, or makeup, or jewelry trades priceless integrity
for a meager gain. A person who falsifies a tax return by not reporting income
or claiming invalid deductions compromises valued integrity for a pittance of
unpaid income tax. One who avoids paying bills promptly for goods or services
received exchanges cherished integrity for a perceived temporary advantage.
Husbands or wives who are unfaithful to their spouses trade their prized
integrity for a fleeting moment of mirth. Integrity is so precious that it is
beyond price; it is invaluable.

Joseph, the son of Jacob, was a model of integrity. No doubt many of you have
been reminded of him recently in a Sunday School class. Joseph's integrity
placed him among the greatest of our Heavenly Father's sons. He did what was
right and good; he was trustworthy and incorruptible, self-disciplined never
to violate a trust.

Because of his integrity and righteousness, Joseph was favored and blessed of
the Lord in every circumstance. His life is evidence that "all things work
together for good to [those who] love God." ([Rom.
8:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/8.28?lang=eng#27).) His example is
especially pertinent to us because most members of the Church have descended
from his loins.

His father, Jacob, loved Joseph even from his youth. The Lord revealed future
events to Joseph in dreams. However, his brothers hated him, plotted to take
his life, and then sold him as a slave. When he was carried captive to Egypt,
the Lord was with him there. Joseph became overseer of the house of Potiphar,
captain of Pharaoh's guard. When approached by Potiphar's wife, Joseph refused
and fled from her improper advances because of his personal righteousness and
because he would not violate Potiphar's trust.

This refusal and the accusations it prompted caused Joseph to be imprisoned.
Again the Lord was with him. Joseph became overseer of the prison. The Lord
enabled him to interpret the dreams of Pharaoh's butler and baker, and later,
Pharaoh's dreams of seven fat and lean cows and of seven full and thin ears of
corn. Subsequently, Joseph became ruler over all Egypt, second in rank only to
Pharaoh. He directed the storage of food during the years of plenty and the
dispensing of it during the years of famine.

During the famine, Joseph's brothers, who had sold him as a slave twenty-two
years earlier, came to Egypt to obtain food. Not recognizing him, they bowed
down to him because of his high office.

In a tender, touching scene, Joseph identified himself to his brothers and
forgave them. I suppose he could have retaliated for their mistreatment of him
by making them slaves, having them imprisoned, or even having them put to
death. But he did what was right and good. He said:

"I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.

"Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me
hither. ...

"And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity ... and to save your
lives by a great deliverance.

"So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God." ([Gen. 45:4-5,
7-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/45.4-5%2C7-8?lang=eng#3).)

Through Joseph, the Lord preserved the children of Israel and provided a place
in Egypt for them to flourish and increase.

This story is well known, but I urge you to read it again, focusing your
attention on the integrity of Joseph and on the blessings it brought to him.
He became the birthright son in the house of Israel and received an
inheritance in the lands of the Americas. (See [Ether
13:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/13.8?lang=eng#7).) The Lord
permitted him to prophesy of Moses, who would deliver the children of Israel
out of Egypt (see JST, Gen. 50:27-29), and of Joseph Smith, the prophet of the
restoration of the gospel in the latter days (see JST, Gen. 50:30-33; [2 Ne.
3:6-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.6-21?lang=eng#5)).

A more modern life of integrity is exemplified by George Washington, first
president of the United States of America. His integrity and character, more
than the brilliance of his intellect, made him the choice of his countrymen as
their leader. He loved the peace and tranquillity of his Mount Vernon estate
but responded when duty called him into the turmoil of public life. He refused
any compensation, expecting the government to pay only the expenses, of which
he kept an exact account. He gave forty-five years of his life in the service
of his country. (See David O. McKay, _Secrets of a Happy Life,_ Salt Lake
City: Bookcraft, 1967, pp. 142-44.) As I visited the Mount Vernon stake two
weeks ago, I felt the spirit of George Washington, the father of his country.
The noble deeds of this great man passed through my mind.

The Prophet Joseph Smith is another great example of integrity. He did not
waver from doing as the Lord directed, even at the peril of his life. He "did
not shirk life, nor did he try to avoid its experiences. ...

"He marched, built, sawed, hewed, plowed, planted with everyone else. His
muscular body was a result of physical exertion. His mind was 'an IDEAL' of
unrelenting seeking." (Leon R. Hartshorn, _Joseph Smith: Prophet of the
Restoration,_ Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1970, p. 67.) "His greatness
did not lie alone in prophesying, ... speaking, or writing, but in what he was."
(Hartshorn, p. 38.)

President Ezra Taft Benson, our prophet, seer, and revelator, is an example of
sublime integrity. His assignment to Europe by the First Presidency to relieve
the sufferings of our Saints after World War II exemplified the nobility of
his character.

"A man's true greatness is not in what he says he is, nor in what people say
he is; [but really] in what he really is." (Hartshorn, p. 38.) Our integrity
determines what we really are.

The Lord expects us to live lives of integrity and to be obedient to his
commandments. He said, "And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things
which I say?" ([Luke
6:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/6.46?lang=eng#45).) On another
occasion, he said, "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is
in heaven." ([Matt.
7:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.21?lang=eng#20).)

A little lying, a little cheating, or taking a little unfair advantage are not
acceptable to the Lord. (See [2 Ne.
28:8-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.8-9?lang=eng#7).) The
scriptures warn that these are Satan's ways to lead us "carefully down to
[destruction]." ([2 Ne.
28:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/28.21?lang=eng#20).)

To Saints of the Restoration, the Savior said, "For of him unto whom much is
given much is required." ([D&amp;C 82:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/82.3?lang=eng#2).) Church members have been given much, indeed:
the gospel of Jesus Christ. That blessing carries a risk. We have been warned,
"Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is
sin." ([James
4:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/4.17?lang=eng#16).)

The world desperately needs men and women of integrity. Nearly every day we
hear of fraud, misapplication of funds, false advertising, or other dealings
designed to obtain gain by cheating or deception. The Lord abhors such
practices. A proverb states, "A false balance [that is, a deceptive scale] is
abomination to the Lord: but a just weight is his delight." ([Prov.
11:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/11.1?lang=eng#0).) The Lord
commanded, "If thou borrowest ... , thou shalt restore that which thou hast
borrowed." ([D&amp;C 136:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/136.25?lang=eng#24).) He commanded the ancient Israelites:

"Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another. ...

"Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob him. ...

"Ye shall do no [injustice] in judgment, ... in weight, or in measure.

"Just balances, just weights ... shall ye have." ([Lev. 19:11, 13,
35-36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/19.11%2C13%2C35-36?lang=eng#10).)

The Lord commanded the Israelites to be more than honest. If they came upon a
lost ox, they were to search out the owner so they could return the animal.
Today, our intentions and dealings must be similarly pure and sound before the
Lord. We must be fair with suppliers, customers, and employees; repay
obligations and keep agreements; and never deceive by failing to disclose all
the facts about an investment or business venture. If our selfish "hearts are
set so much upon the things of this world" ([D&amp;C
121:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.35?lang=eng#34)),
we can easily lose our integrity. We must remember that "we believe in being
honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." ([A
of F 1:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.13?lang=eng#12).)

Elder Neal A. Maxwell stated, "Oh, how we wish for more honesty and less
corruption, more goodness instead of so much cleverness, and more wisdom in
lieu of unanchored brilliance."

We must be honest with the Lord as we pay our tithes. Faithful Saints have
learned that he will "open ... the windows of heaven, and pour ... out a blessing,
that there shall not be room enough to receive it." ([Mal.
3:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/mal/3.10?lang=eng#9).) The payment of
tithing has less to do with money, but more to do with faith. Let us return
one-tenth of our income to the Lord (see [D&amp;C
119:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/119.4?lang=eng#3)) and
never be guilty of robbing him by failing to pay our tithes. Then, we also
should remember those in need and contribute generous fast offerings for their
assistance.

We show our integrity by caring for and serving others. Let me cite an
instance where family members, a Christlike bishop, home teachers, visiting
teachers, and ward members so lived.

A young mother of eight children was left without a husband. The oldest child
was twelve, the youngest barely one, and one daughter was confined to a
wheelchair. This mother moved to a ward that was close to her family and
friends. Being single and divorced, she feared that she might be ignored or
shunned. However, as she was moving in, ward members streamed in to welcome
her, bring food, and offer assistance. She hardly had time to direct those who
were unloading the moving van.

After getting settled, she and her family received innumerable expressions of
service and love. Her home teachers repaired her appliances and other
household items. Her visiting teachers kept very close and made sure she never
had to go alone to a Church activity. At Christmastime, she found money left
anonymously on her porch or had it given to her in a handshake. She received
hundreds of dollars toward the purchase of a wheelchair-lift for her van.
After being out of town briefly, she returned home and found that ward members
had renovated her kitchen.

Her parents, brother, and sisters provided financial and emotional support.
They helped take care of her children, accompanied her to the emergency room
with a daughter who was very ill, built a ramp to the front door for the
wheelchair, built shelves for food storage, and helped with yard work.

All of this kindness lifted her spirits and gave her courage to meet the
trials and hardships of each day. Those who looked after this young mother
practiced "pure religion" ([James
1:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.27?lang=eng#26)) because of
their integrity. Let us "go, and do ... likewise" ([Luke
10:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/10.37?lang=eng#36)), as the
Savior taught in the parable of the good Samaritan.

The rewards of integrity are immeasurable. One is the indescribable inner
peace and serenity that come from knowing we are doing what is right; another
is an absence of the guilt and anxiety that accompany sin.

Another reward of integrity is the confidence it can give us in approaching
God. When virtue garnishes our thoughts unceasingly, our confidence is strong
in the presence of God. (See [D&amp;C 121:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/121.45?lang=eng#44).) When we are doing what is right, we
will not feel timid and hesitant about seeking divine direction. We will know
the Lord will answer our prayers and help us in our need.

The consummate reward of integrity is the constant companionship of the Holy
Ghost. (See [D&amp;C 121:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.46?lang=eng#45).) The Holy Ghost does not attend us when we
do evil. But when we do what is right, he can dwell with us and guide us in
all we do.

My brothers and sisters, let us live true to the trust the Lord has placed in
us. Let us strive for personal, practical integrity in every endeavor,
regardless of how mundane or inconsequential it may seem. The small matters
accumulate to shape the direction of our lives.

I bear my witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and is our Lord
and Savior. This is his church. Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God, as is
President Ezra Taft Benson. I bear this testimony humbly, in the name of Jesus
Christ, amen.

