# “Draw Near unto Me”

"And a little child shall lead them." ([2 Ne.
21:6](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/21.6?lang=eng#5).) Can you imagine the joy our
Heavenly Father must feel when we come to him with the tender faith of a
little child and accept the love he has for each of us? He wants us to come to
him and has promised that he will be there to welcome us. In the Doctrine and
Covenants he has said, "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you."
([D&amp;C 88:63](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.63?lang=eng#62).) This is our
invitation from our Father in Heaven to share in the wondrous blessings he has
in store for us. He then gives explicit directions on how we can find him:
"_Seek_ me diligently and ye shall find me;_ ask,_ and ye shall receive;
_knock,_ and it shall be opened unto you." ([D&amp;C 88:63](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.63?lang=eng#62); italics added.) _Seek, Ask, Knock._

With this scriptural instruction, he has outlined the steps we should follow
to draw near unto him. We _seek_ him by studying the scriptures and listening
to his prophets, through which we learn about him and his eternal plan for us.
We _ask_ through prayer and receive the guidance of his Spirit. And as we
_knock,_ the way is opened for us to gain eternal life and return to the
Lord's presence through obedience to his commandments.

Of prayer we may sometimes wonder, "Can our Heavenly Father really hear us?
And does he answer prayer?" Many years ago, I learned these few lines:

_If radio's slim fingers can pluck a melody from night and toss it across a
continent or sea,_

_If petalled white notes of a violin are thrown across a mountain or a city's
din,_

_If songs like crimson roses are drawn from thin blue air,_

_Then why?--why do mortals wonder if God can hear prayer?_

The Savior has promised us, "Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall
be given unto you, that is expedient for you." ([D&amp;C 88:64](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/88.64?lang=eng#63).)

From scripture study we receive further direction concerning the way to draw
close to the Lord: "_Sanctify_ yourselves that your minds become single to
God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his
face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and
according to his own will." ([D&amp;C 88:68](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.68?lang=eng#67); italics added.) _Sanctify_ means to make
sacred or holy--to make free from sin, to purify. This we do to be in tune
with his Spirit.

We are given a guide that regularly reminds us of ways we can remain free from
sin and have his Spirit with us. We hear it each time we partake of the
sacrament. Listen carefully to the words: "O God, the Eternal Father, we ask
thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and _sanctify_ this bread
to the souls of all those who partake of it; that they may eat in remembrance
of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that
they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember
him, and keep his commandments which he hath given them, that they may always
have his Spirit to be with them." ([Moro.
4:3](/scriptures/bofm/moro/4.3?lang=eng#2); also [D&amp;C 20:77](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/20.77?lang=eng#76); italics added.)

Verse 1 of section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants is a summation of our
opportunities: "Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every
soul who forsaketh his sins and _cometh_ unto me, and _calleth_ on my name,
and _obeyeth_ my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and
know that I am." [[D&amp;C 93:1](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.1?lang=eng#0)]
(Italics added.) This is the promise the Lord gives each of you wonderful
sisters--as a child, as a youth, as a woman--to draw you heavenward.

Seek. Ask. Knock.

_Seek_ through the scriptures.

_Ask_ through prayer.

_Knock_ through obedience.

May we attach our efforts to his power. He lives today. We can have his Spirit
to be with us.

In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

