# Be Men!

A young man of deacon age reported: "I feel a lot of pressure from my friends
to smoke and steal and things like that. ... My best friends are really pushing
me to do it. They call me a _pansy _and a _mamma's boy _if I don't. I really
don't like the idea of smoking but my good friend Steve told me in front of
some of my friends, 'Kevin, you're _an idiot _and _a chicken _wrapped up in
one little body.'" (J. Santrock, _Adolescence,_ New York: William C. Brown,
1987; italics added.)

An eighteen-year-old priest recounted:

"On one occasion, I was persuaded to join a group on a weekend excursion. I
was told that the [plans] for the day included ... sightseeing, a lunch, and a
movie. I was promised that there would be no [inappropriate activities]. All ...
knew that I was a Latter-day Saint and ... deeply committed to the moral
standards of the Church.

"Upon reaching the city, we visited a place or two of historical significance
and ate lunch. Then the inevitable happened--the group turned toward a bar and
a house of [prostitution]. I refused to enter these dens of iniquity, and I
openly expressed my anger over the broken promises of my associates.

"As I walked away ... my companions taunted me by shouting, 'When are you going
to grow up?' 'When will you stop being a sissy and a religious fanatic?' 'When
are you going to be a man?'" (Carlos E. Asay, _In the Lord's Service, _Salt
Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1990, p. 46.)

## Who Is a Man?

It seems that everyone at some time or another is invited by peers to smoke,
drink, steal, or engage in other immoral acts, all under the pretense of
manhood. And when someone refuses to participate, he is often ridiculed and
called names like pansy, mamma's boy, idiot, chicken, sissy, and religious
fanatic. Such names are used by peers who equate manliness with the ability to
drink liquor, blow tobacco smoke out of all the facial cavities, sow one's
wild oats like some animal on the street, and break moral laws without a
twinge of conscience.

We see colorful advertisements on billboards, in magazines, and on the
television screen promoting cigarettes, beer, and other vices. Those who use
cunning tactics to peddle their wares disregard the souls of young people and
love only their money. They would have us believe that a person with a
cigarette or alcoholic beverage in hand is a man, when in reality he is
nothing more than a slave to a destructive substance. They would have us
believe that a person who engages in illicit sex is a man, when in reality he
is nothing more than an abuser of those who are "tender," and "chaste," and
"delicate." ([Jacob
2:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/2.7?lang=eng#6).) They would
have us believe that brute force, or crude behavior, uncontrolled temper, foul
language, and dirty appearance make a man, when in reality these
characteristics are animalistic at best and the opposite of manhood at worst.

We who bear the priesthood, must be on guard; we must not be influenced by
barbarian voices in our quest to become men. (See [1 Cor.
14:8-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/14.8-11?lang=eng#7).) We must
remember that "God created man in his own image" and that man is expected to
keep that image engraven upon his countenance. ([Gen.
1:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/gen/1.27?lang=eng#26); see also [Alma
5:14, 19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.14%2C19?lang=eng#13).)

"What is man?" asked the psalmist. ([Ps.
8:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/8.4?lang=eng#3).) The answer: "[God]
made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and
honour." ([Ps. 8:4-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/8.4-6?lang=eng#3).)
It is, therefore, our responsibility to climb ever upward and to wear God-
given crowns honorably. Young men, especially those of a "chosen generation"
and "royal priesthood," must understand that they are the spiritual offspring
of God and that no one becomes in truth a man until he reverences the Father
of spirits and allows inner powers to control his thoughts, words, and
actions. (See [1 Pet.
2:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/2.9?lang=eng#8); [Acts
17:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/acts/17.28?lang=eng#27); [Heb.
12:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/12.9?lang=eng#8).)

## What Makes a Man a Man?

What makes a man a man? This is a question used in a popular beer ad. The
suggestion of that advertisement is that by drinking the beer the consumer
becomes a man. How devious and how very stupid! Those who try to get you to
drink alcoholic beverages and use drugs have total disregard for you, you who
are the "temples of God." Hence, they would have you defile your body and
offend the Spirit of God that dwells within you. (See [1 Cor.
3:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/3.16-17?lang=eng#15).)

What makes a man a man? Let's turn to the Book of Mormon and Father Lehi for
an answer. A short time before his death, Lehi gave this charge to his sons:
"Arise from the dust, ... and _be men._" ([2 Ne.
1:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.21?lang=eng#20); italics
added.)

"Awake from a deep sleep, yea, even from the sleep of hell, and shake off the
awful chains by which ye are bound." ([2 Ne.
1:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.13?lang=eng#12).)

"Be determined in one mind and in one heart, united in all things." ([2 Ne.
1:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.21?lang=eng#20).)

"Put on the armor of righteousness. ... Come forth out of obscurity. ... Rebel no
more." ([2 Ne.
1:23-24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/1.23-24?lang=eng#22).)

  * The challenge to "arise from the dust" means to overcome evil behaviors that destroy character and ruin lives. Physical appetites must be controlled.

  * "Awake from a deep sleep, ... even from the sleep of hell" suggests a process of learning and becoming aware of God's holy purposes. No sleep is deeper or more deadly than the sleep of ignorance.

  * "Shake off the awful chains by which ye are bound" indicates the need to overcome bad habits, even the seemingly little habits that grow into strong "chains of hell." (See 2 Ne. 26:22; Alma 5:7.)

  * "Be determined in one mind and in one heart, united in all things" requires full commitment to righteousness and a singleness of purpose so that one's will is made compatible with the will of God.

  * "Put on the armor of righteousness" reminds us of the need to wear the helmet of salvation, pick up the sword of truth, use the shield of faith, and accept the full protective coverings of the Lord. (See Eph. 6:11-18.)

  * "Come forth out of obscurity" instructs one to model goodness and serve as a light to others. True men are living light fountains which are pleasant to be near. (See D&amp;C 103:9-10.)

  * "Rebel no more" makes it perfectly clear that ignoring or willfully breaking commandments is a wasteful effort.

## Vicious Lie

There is a lie--a vicious lie--circulating among the Latter-day Saints and
taking its toll among the young. And it is that a "balanced man" is one who
deliberately guards against becoming too righteous. This lie would have you
believe that it is possible to live successfully and happily as a "double-
minded man" with one foot in Babylon and one foot in Zion. (See [James
1:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/1.8?lang=eng#7).)

I love this story of two young men who had been schooled in a monastery. One
morning as they sought adventure, they passed a cathedral. The more righteous
of the two remembered that they had not prayed that morning and said, "How can
[we] hope for [God's] blessing upon the day?"

The less righteous one responded: "My friend, I have prayed so much during the
last two months ... that I feel that I have [somewhat] over-prayed myself."

"How can a man have too much religion?" asked the first. "It is the one thing
that availeth. A man is but a beast as he lives from day to day, eating and
drinking, breathing and sleeping. _It is only when he raises himself, and
concerns himself with the immortal spirit within him, that he becomes in
[very] truth a man. _Bethink ye how sad a thing it would be that the blood of
the Redeemer should be spilled to no purpose." (A. Conan Doyle, "The White
Company," in _Works of A. Conan Doyle, _New York: Cosmopolitan Book
Corporation, 1988, pp. 58-59; italics added.)

Can a man be too righteous? Too Christlike? Impossible! Can the so-called
"balanced man" walk successfully the beam between good and evil? No. Each step
is shaky, and eventually he will teeter and fall and break himself against the
commandments of God.

Fleshliness never was manliness, and it never will be. A real man is one who
yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit and seeks to acquire Christlike
virtues. A real man is one who allows the Spirit to direct the course and to
call the cadence in his life. "Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and
to be spiritually-minded is life eternal." ([2 Ne.
9:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.39?lang=eng#38).)

## Examples of Manliness

A man of Christ stood on October 1, 1959, before a crowd of 1,500 people in a
church within the shadow of the Kremlin and boldly referred to Jesus as the
great Redeemer. He said in an emotion-filled voice:

"I believe very firmly in prayer. It is possible to reach out and tap that
unseen power which gives us such strength and such anchor in time of need. ...
Be not afraid. Keep His commandments. Love one another. Love all mankind.
Strive for peace and all will be well. Truth will endure. Time is on the side
of truth." (Ezra Taft Benson, _Cross Fire: The Eight Years with Eisenhower,
_Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday and Co., 1962, pp. 485-88.)

People wept openly on that occasion, including newsmen who had reluctantly
attended the worship service. One newsman, a former marine, ranked the
experience as one of the two most spiritual and memorable of his life.

There was a man in that cathedral in Russia on that special day. His name,
Ezra Taft Benson--he who now presides as the President, prophet of the Church.

Parley P. Pratt provides us with a description of a real man in his account of
his imprisonment in Richmond, Missouri, with Joseph Smith and others. On one
of those awful nights in jail, Brother Pratt and his associates were exposed
to the filthy language of their guards as they bragged of their deeds of rape,
murder, robbery, and other crimes committed against the Mormons. When the
Prophet Joseph could bear it no more, he rose to his feet and spoke with a
voice of thunder:

"SILENCE, ye fiends of the infernal pit. In the name of Jesus Christ I rebuke
you, and command you to be still; I will not live another minute and bear such
language. Cease such talk, or you or I die THIS INSTANT!"

Said Elder Pratt: "I have seen the ministers of justice, clothed in
magisterial robes ... in the Courts of England; I have witnessed a Congress in
solemn session ... ; I have tried to conceive of kings ... ; and of emperors
assembled to decide the fate of kingdoms; but dignity and majesty have I seen
but _once, _as it stood in chains, at midnight, in a dungeon in an obscure
village of Missouri." (_Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, _Salt Lake City:
Deseret Book Co., 1985, pp. 179-80.)

There was a man! Joseph Smith, the prophet of the Restoration.

The Savior, the perfect model of manliness, stood before his tormentors having
been scourged, beaten, spat upon, and platted with a crown of thorns. Pilate
admitted, "I find no fault in him." Then he pronounced those irrefutable and
piercing words: "Behold the man!" ([John
19:4-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/19.4-5?lang=eng#3).)

Jesus, our Savior, was _the _man among men, for he "increased in wisdom and
stature, and in favour with God and man" ([Luke
2:52](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/2.52?lang=eng#51)); he subjected
the flesh to the Spirit and yielded not to temptation (see [Mosiah
15:1-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/15.1-8?lang=eng#0)); he
learned obedience by the things which he suffered (see [Heb.
5:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/5.8?lang=eng#7)); he grew from
grace to grace (see [D&amp;C 93:12-14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/93.12-14?lang=eng#11)); and, in the words of Shakespeare:

_His life was gentle, and the elements_

_So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up_

_And say to all the world "This was a man!"_

Thus, he, the only sinless and perfect man who ever walked this earth, is
qualified to state: "What manner of men ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you,
even as I am." ([3 Ne.
27:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26).)

King David instructed his son Solomon, "Be thou strong ... and shew thyself _a
man;_

"And keep the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his
statutes, and his commandments, ... that thou mayest prosper in all that thou
doest." ([1 Kgs.
2:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/2.2-3?lang=eng#1); italics
added.) I echo this charge--Be men! Be men of Christ! Be men of God! For this
I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

