# Personal Revelation: The Gift, the Test, and the Promise

When the funeral cortege traveled with the body of our beloved President Ezra
Taft Benson to his final resting place at home in Idaho, every overpass was
lined with people. There were along the way Scouts in uniform with flags.
There were the elderly in camp chairs, even wheelchairs. Farmers left their
equipment to stand in the field, and families dressed in their Sunday best
paid their respects. Thousands of people expressed love for him, a spontaneous
outpouring of love--all of which is now transferred to President Howard W.
Hunter. His physical limitations actually enhance his capacity as prophet and
seer. God bless him for the course that he has already set and the direction
that he will yet give us.

I speak to the youth of the Church who now face "perilous times," as the
Apostle Paul prophesied would come in the last days. [1]

In order to prepare you, and protect you, I will tell you, as plainly as I
can, what I have learned about personal revelation.

## Dual Beings

There are two parts to your nature--your temporal body born of mortal parents,
and your immortal spirit within. You are a son or daughter of God.

Physically you can see with eyes and hear with ears and touch and feel and
learn. Through your intellect, you learn most of what you know about the world
in which we live.

But if you learn by reason only, you will never understand the Spirit and how
it works--regardless of how much you learn about other things.

The scriptures teach that "great men are not always wise." [2]  Spiritually
you may "know _not,_ and know _not_ that you know _not,_" and be "ever
learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth." [3]

Your spirit learns in a different way than does your intellect.

For "there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them
understanding," [4]  and the Spirit of Christ "giveth light to every man that
cometh into the world." [5]

I will use the words _see, hear,_ and _feel_ to teach about revelation, but I
will use them as they are used in the scriptures.

## The gift of the Holy Ghost

Following baptism, in the ordinance of confirmation, you received the _gift_
of the Holy Ghost.

While the Holy Ghost may inspire all mankind, the gift carries the right to
have it as a "constant companion." [6]  It is "by the power of the Holy Ghost
[that you] may know the truth of all things." [7]

We are told that "angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost." [8]  We are
even told that when we speak by the power of the Holy Ghost, we "speak with
the tongue [or in the same language] of angels." [9]

## Prayer

You have your agency, and inspiration does not--perhaps cannot--flow unless
you ask for it, or someone asks for you.

No message in scripture is repeated more often than the invitation, even the
command, to pray--to ask.

Prayer is so essential a part of revelation that without it the veil may
remain closed to you. Learn to pray. Pray often. Pray in your mind, in your
heart. Pray on your knees.

## Begin Where You Are

You must begin where you are. Pray, even if you are like the prophet Alma when
he was young and wayward, or if you are like Amulek, of the closed mind, who
"knew concerning these things, yet ... would not know." [10]

Prayer is _your_ personal key to heaven. The lock is on your side of the veil.
[11]

## Study

But that is not all. To one who thought that revelation would flow without
effort, the Lord said:

"You have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you,
when you took no thought save it was to ask me.

"But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your _mind;_ then
you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your
bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall _feel_ that it is right."
[12]

This burning in the bosom is not purely a physical sensation. It is more like
a warm light shining within your being.

Describing the promptings from the Holy Ghost to one who has not had them is
very difficult. Such promptings are personal and strictly private! [13]

## Still Small Voice

The Holy Ghost speaks with a voice that you _feel_ more than you _hear._ It is
described as a "still small voice." [14]  And while we speak of "listening" to
the whisperings of the Spirit, most often one describes a spiritual prompting
by saying, "I had a _feeling_ ..."

The Prophet Joseph Smith explained: "A person may profit by noticing the first
intimation of the spirit of revelation; for instance, when you feel pure
intelligence flowing into you, it may give you sudden strokes of ideas, so
that by noticing it, you may find it fulfilled the same day or soon; ... those
things that were presented unto your minds by the Spirit of God, will come to
pass; and thus by learning the Spirit of God and understanding it, you may
grow into the principle of revelation, until you become perfect in Christ
Jesus." [15]

Revelation comes as words we _feel_ more than _hear._ Nephi told his wayward
brothers, who were visited by an angel, "Ye were past _feeling,_ that ye could
not _feel_ his words." [16]

The scriptures are full of such expressions as "The veil was taken from our
minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened," [17]  or "I will tell
you in your mind and in your heart," [18]  or "I did enlighten thy mind," [19]
or "Speak the thoughts that I shall put into your hearts." [20]  There are
hundreds of verses which teach of revelation.

President Marion G. Romney, quoting the prophet Enos, said, "While I was thus
struggling in the spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind."
[21]  Enos then related what the Lord put into his mind.

"This," President Romney said, "is a very common means of revelation. It comes
into one's mind in words and sentences. With this medium of revelation I am
personally well acquainted." [22]

We do not seek for spectacular experiences. President Spencer W. Kimball spoke
of the many who "have no ear for spiritual messages ... when they come in common
dress. ... Expecting the spectacular, one may not be fully alerted to the
constant flow of revealed communication." [23]

## Prompting

This voice of the Spirit speaks gently, prompting you what to do or what to
say, or it may caution or warn you.

Ignore or disobey these promptings, and the Spirit will leave you. It is your
choice--your agency.

## Faith

The flow of revelation depends on your faith. You exercise faith by causing,
or by making, your mind accept or believe as truth that which _you_ cannot, by
reason alone, prove for certainty. [24]

The first exercising of your faith should be your acceptance of Christ and His
atonement.

As you test gospel principles by believing without knowing, the Spirit will
begin to teach you. Gradually your faith will be replaced with knowledge.

You will be able to discern, or to _see,_ with spiritual eyes.

Be believing and your faith will be constantly replenished, your knowledge of
the truth increased, and your testimony of the Redeemer, of the Resurrection,
of the Restoration will be as "a well of living water, springing up unto
everlasting life." [25]  You may then receive guidance on practical decisions
in everyday life.

## Word of Wisdom

Your body is the instrument of your mind. In your emotions, the spirit and the
body come closest to being one. What you learn spiritually depends, to a
degree, on how you treat your body. That is why the Word of Wisdom [26]  is so
important.

The habit-forming substances prohibited by that revelation--tea, coffee,
liquor, tobacco--interfere with the delicate feelings of spiritual
communication, just as other addictive drugs will do.

Do not ignore the Word of Wisdom, for that may cost you the "great treasures
of knowledge, even hidden treasures" [27]  promised to those who keep it. And
good health is an added blessing.

## Music

Make wholesome music of all kinds a part of your life.

Then learn what _sacred_ music has to do with revelation. The Lord said, "My
soul delighteth in the song of the _heart;_ yea, the song of the righteous is
a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."
[28]

Secular music may be inspiring in a classical or popular sense, but it will
not prepare your mind to be instructed by the Spirit as will sacred music.

The Apostle Paul counseled the Ephesians to "be filled with the Spirit;
_speaking to yourselves_ in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and
making melody _in your heart_ to the Lord." [29]

## Reverence

Prelude music, reverently played, is nourishment for the spirit. It invites
inspiration. That is a time to, as the poet said, "go to your bosom ... and ask
your heart what it doth know." [30]  Do not ever disturb prelude music for
others, for reverence is essential to revelation. "Be still," He said, "and
know that I am God." [31]

Now a warning! Some music is spiritually very destructive. You young people
know what kind that is. The tempo, the sounds, and the lifestyle of those who
perform it repel the Spirit. It is far more dangerous than you may suppose,
for it can smother your spiritual senses.

## Temptation

Now, young people, pay attention! Before I say another word about personal
revelation, I must tell you so that you cannot possibly misunderstand: "There
are many spirits which are false spirits." [32]  There can be counterfeit
revelations, promptings from the devil, temptations! As long as you live, in
one way or another the adversary will try to lead you astray.

"For after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do
good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject
themselves unto him." [33]

The Prophet Joseph Smith said that "nothing is a greater injury to the
children of men than to be under the influence of a false spirit when they
think they have the Spirit of God." [34]

The seventh chapter of Moroni in the Book of Mormon tells you how to test
spiritual promptings. Read it carefully--over and over.

By trial, and some error, you will learn to heed these promptings.

If ever you receive a prompting to do something that makes you _feel_ uneasy,
something you know in your _mind_ to be wrong and contrary to the principles
of righteousness, do not respond to it!

## The Church

The Lord reveals His will through dreams and visions, visitations, through
angels, through His own voice, and through the voice of His servants. [35]
"Whether by mine own voice," He said, "or by the voice of my servants, it is
the same." [36]

The Lord's house is a house of order. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that "it
is contrary to the economy of God for any member of the Church, or any one
[else], to receive instruction for those in authority, higher than
themselves." [37]

You may receive revelation individually, as a parent for your family, or for
those for whom you are responsible as a leader or teacher, having been
properly called and set apart.

If one becomes critical and harbors negative feelings, the Spirit will
withdraw. Only when they repent will the Spirit return. My experience is that
the channels of inspiration always follow that order. You are safe following
your leaders.

## The Comforter

Now do not suppose that you will be spared from sorrow, disappointment,
failure, fear. These come to all. They are essential to our testing.

When sore trials come, you will learn why the Holy Ghost is called the
Comforter.

You must face life "led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things which
[you] should do," [38]  just as Nephi did.

You may not yet have a certain witness that Jesus is the Christ. Exercise your
faith and trust in those who do.

I have that certain witness. It came to me in my youth. During those early
periods of doubt, I leaned on the testimony of a seminary teacher. Although
_I_ did not know, somehow I _knew_ that he _knew._

The Lord said:

"If ye love me, keep my commandments.

"And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he
may abide with you for ever;

"Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him
not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall
be in you.

"I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you." [39]

I bear witness of the power of the Spirit and thank God that this incomparable
gift is given to you, our youth, to guide you as you move forward to a happy
life, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.   [2 Tim. 3:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/3.1?lang=eng#0).

  2.   [Job 32:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/32.9?lang=eng#8).

  3.   [2 Tim. 3:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-tim/3.7?lang=eng#6).

  4.   [Job 32:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/job/32.8?lang=eng#7).

  5.   [D&amp;C 84:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.46?lang=eng#45).

  6.   [D&amp;C 121:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.46?lang=eng#45).

  7.   [Moro. 10:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.5?lang=eng#4); see also [2 Ne. 32:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.5?lang=eng#4).

  8.   [2 Ne. 32:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.3?lang=eng#2).

  9.   [2 Ne. 31:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.13?lang=eng#12); [2 Ne. 32:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.2?lang=eng#1).

  10.   [Alma 10:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/10.6?lang=eng#5).

  11.  See [Rev. 3:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/3.20?lang=eng#19).

  12.   [D&amp;C 9:7-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/9.7-8?lang=eng#6); emphasis added.

  13.  See [1 Ne. 14:28-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.28-30?lang=eng#27); [2 Ne. 32:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.7?lang=eng#6); [Alma 12:9-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.9-11?lang=eng#8).

  14.   [D&amp;C 85:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/85.6?lang=eng#5).

  15.   _Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ p. 151.

  16.   [1 Ne. 17:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.45?lang=eng#44); emphasis added.

  17.   [D&amp;C 110:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.1?lang=eng#0).

  18.   [D&amp;C 8:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/8.2?lang=eng#1).

  19.   [D&amp;C 6:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.15?lang=eng#14).

  20.   [D&amp;C 100:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/100.5?lang=eng#4).

  21.   [Enos 1:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/enos/1.10?lang=eng#9).

  22.  In Conference Report, Apr. 1964, p. 124.

  23.   _Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball,_ ed. Edward L. Kimball, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1982, p. 457.

  24.  See [Alma 32:27-28, 38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.27-28%2C38?lang=eng#26).

  25.   [D&amp;C 63:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/63.23?lang=eng#22); see also [John 4:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/4.14?lang=eng#13); [Jer. 2:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/2.13?lang=eng#12).

  26.  See [D&amp;C 89](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/89.title?lang=eng).

  27.   [D&amp;C 89:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/89.19?lang=eng#18).

  28.   [D&amp;C 25:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/25.12?lang=eng#11); emphasis added.

  29.   [Eph. 5:18-19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/eph/5.18-19?lang=eng#17); emphasis added.

  30.  William Shakespeare, _Measure for Measure,_ act 2, scene 2, lines 136-37.

  31.   [Ps. 46:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/46.10?lang=eng#9).

  32.   [D&amp;C 50:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/50.2?lang=eng#1); see also [D&amp;C 50:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/50.3?lang=eng#2).

  33.   [Moro. 7:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.17?lang=eng#16).

  34.   _Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ p. 205.

  35.  See [D&amp;C 43:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/43.25?lang=eng#24).

  36.   [D&amp;C 1:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.38?lang=eng#37).

  37.   _Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ p. 21.

  38.   [1 Ne. 4:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/4.6?lang=eng#5).

  39.   [John 14:15-18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.15-18?lang=eng#14).

