# Birth

Tomorrow, April 6, 1975, will be the 145th anniversary of the establishment of
the Church upon the earth in this greatest and final of all the dispensations.
By direct revelation we have been informed that tomorrow will also be the
1,975th anniversary of the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem of Judea.

But this is also the Easter season. Last Sunday we commemorated the
anniversary of the initiation upon this earth of the universal resurrection.
This is also the springtime of the year, when all of nature is being
reawakened into a newness of life. And I thought that inasmuch as this is a
season of so many new beginnings I would like to talk to you about birth.
However, I don't mean the birth of Jesus, nor the resurrection, nor the
reawakening of nature. I mean your own birth and the great possibilities
involved in our own human reawakenings.

Henry David Thoreau, an early American philosopher, once said that we should
thank God every day of our lives for the privilege of having been born. And
then he went on to speculate on the rather unique supposition of what it might
have been like if we had not been born. Just suppose that you had never been
born or that your parents or your brothers and sisters or your children or
your friends had never been born. Just think of all the excitement and
blessings that we would have missed as a consequence. But what Mr. Thoreau may
not have known was that one-third of all the children of God never were born
and never can be born because they failed to pass the requirements of their
first estate.

We remember the unembodied spirits who appeared to Jesus in his day who
preferred the bodies of swine rather than to have no bodies at all. (See
[Matt. 8:28-32](/scriptures/nt/matt/8.28-32?lang=eng#27); [Mark
5:11-13](/scriptures/nt/mark/5.11-13?lang=eng#10).) And I am very sure that if
we could go today while we walk by faith and stand where we once stood when we
walked by sight that we would be willing to crawl on our hands and knees
through life for this tremendous opportunity which we presently enjoy.

William Wordsworth said that our birth is a sleep and forgetting. There is one
distinguishing characteristic about the moment of birth in that it is an
unconscious moment; that is, no one ever realizes while he is being born that
that event is actually taking place. Sometimes we don't discover that we have
been born until quite a long time afterward. Sometimes we never do find out
that we have been born.

I heard one man say about his friend, "He doesn't know he is alive."
Frequently that strikes very close to the truth. That is, sometimes we don't
know why we were born. We don't know where we came from. We don't know the
purpose of life. We haven't any very definite program for just what we are
going to do about our eternal destiny.

The greatest accomplishment of my life is that I was successful in getting
myself born, and I am just awfully pleased about that. There just isn't
anything that I would rather have had happen to me than to have been born.

After I had been around for a little while, I made the discovery that one of
the significant facts about my having been born is that I had inherited two
very wonderful people to be my parents. They were parents who were interested
in teaching me the principles of the gospel and helping me to make as much as
possible out of my life. I am everlastingly grateful for my parents. They were
pretty poor financially and we had a little trouble getting along, but
sometimes that is all to the good. Somebody has said that one of the most
serious disadvantages that anyone can have in life is to have too many
advantages. One of the most outstanding advantages of my life is my parents.
And I always think of my mother when I read those stimulating lines saying:

_You may have riches and wealth untold_

_With baskets of jewels and caskets of gold_

_But richer than I you will never be_

_For I had a mother who read to me._

As I approached the eighth anniversary of my birth, I learned something else
about being born. I was instructed by my parents and by my Church teachers in
the philosophy of Jesus that one birth is not enough, and that everyone should
be born twice.

And so on August 27, 1911, I was born of the water and of the spirit in
exactly the meaning of that great command as given by the Savior of the world.
And I came forth in a newness of life with a new set of possibilities. I had
hands laid upon my head and a prayer was offered in my behalf for the
reception of the Holy Ghost, and I was confirmed by my father as a member of
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and from that moment until
this I have had the direction of those great principles of righteousness and
the promptings of the Holy Spirit to help me make of my life something
approaching what the Lord would like to have me make of it.

But since that time, I have discovered some other important things about being
born. One of them is that no one is limited to merely two births, that we can
be born again as many times as we please. And each time we can be born better.

In 1932, Walter Pitkin wrote a great book entitled _Life Begins at Forty._ But
that is ridiculous. Life begins when we begin, and we may begin a new and
better life every morning.

Someone once asked Phillips Brooks when he was born, and he said that it was
one Sunday afternoon about 3:30 when he was 25 years of age, just after he had
finished reading a great book. Just think how many thrilling, exciting
rebirths we can have as we study the holy scriptures and as we fill our minds
with the word of the Lord and get the spirit of righteousness into our hearts.

Walter Malone gave us a kind of poetic formula for rebirth when he said:

_Art thou an idler, then rouse thee from thy spell;_

_Art thou a sinner, sin may be forgiven._

_Each morning gives thee wings to flee from hell._

_Each night a star to guide thy soul to heaven._

But we have not only been given a star to guide us to heaven, we have also
been given every one of the great principles of the gospel. The Church has
been established upon the earth in our dispensation. We have been given a
prophet "to guide us in these latter days." We have been given the Spirit of
our Heavenly Father himself to direct and inspire us. And not the least among
all of these, we have been given the tremendous resources of our own souls.
William Wordsworth said:

_The soul that rises with us, our life's star,_

_Hath had elsewhere its setting,_

_And cometh from afar:_

_Not in entire forgetfulness,_

_And not in utter nakedness,_

_But trailing clouds of glory do we come_

_From God, who is our home._

And to inspire us for the return trip to God's presence, I would like to share
with you some stimulating lines that were written a number of years ago by a
young man by the name of John Gillespie Magee. John Gillespie Magee was an
American fighter pilot connected with the Royal Canadian Air Force who was
shot down over London in the battle for Britain in the first part of the
Second World War.

Before going into the service, John Gillespie Magee had done the usual things
that 17-year-olds do. Then after his basic training had been completed, he
felt for the first time in his hands the controls of those powerful engines
capable of sending his aircraft through space at stupendous speeds. And then
feeling the exhilaration that came from doing well his part of the work of the
world, he wrote his great poem entitled "High Flight," which is now found in
the Library of Congress under the title of _Poems of Faith and Freedom._ And I
share this with you now because you are also engaged in a "High Flight." You
are engaged in the greatest "High Flight" of faith and freedom ever known in
the world.

John Gillespie Magee said:

_Oh! I have slipped the surly bonds of earth_

_And danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings;_

_Sunward I've climbed, and joined the tumbling mirth_

_Of sun-split clouds--and done a hundred things_

_You have not dreamed of--wheeled and soared and swung_

_High in the sunlit silence, hov'ring there._

_I've chased the shouting wind along, and flung_

_My eager craft through footless halls of air._

_Up, up the long, delirious, burning blue_

_I've topped the wind-swept heights with easy grace_

_Where never lark, or even eagle flew--_

_And, while with silent lifting mind I've trod_

_The high untrespassed sanctity of space,_

_Put out my hand and touched the face of God._

And that is the purpose of our lives, that by keeping His commandments the
offspring of God may become even as their eternal parents. The greatest good
fortune of our lives, my brothers and sisters, is that we have been created in
his image and have been endowed with a set of his attributes and
potentialities. And if we live as we should, then on some future Easter
morning, we may be born again into his presence to live with him in the
celestial kingdom throughout eternity. And that it may be so with each one of
us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

## References

