# The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ

I hold in my hand a first-edition copy of the Book of Mormon. It was printed
in 1830 on a hand-operated letter press at the E. B. Grandin Company in the
village of Palmyra, New York.

In June of 1829, Joseph Smith, then 23 years old, called on 23-year-old Mr.
Grandin in company with Martin Harris, a local farmer. Mr. Grandin had three
months earlier advertised his intent to publish books. Joseph Smith provided
pages of a handwritten manuscript.

If the content of the book did not doom it to remain obscure, the account of
where it came from certainly would. Imagine an angel directing a teenage boy
to the woods where he found buried a stone vault and a set of golden plates.

The writings on the plates were translated by use of a Urim and Thummim, which
is referred to a number of times in the Old Testament [1]  and described by
Hebrew scholars as an instrument "whereby the revelation was given and truth
declared." [2]

Before the book was off the press, pages of it were stolen and printed in the
local newspaper, accompanied by ridicule. Opposition was destined to excite
mobs to kill the Prophet Joseph Smith and drive those who believed him into
the wilderness.

From that very unlikely beginning to this day, 108,936,922 copies of the Book
of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ have been printed. It has been
published in 62 languages, with selections of it in another 37 languages, and
22 more translations are in process.

Now 60,000 full-time missionaries in 162 countries pay their own way to devote
two years of their lives to testify that the Book of Mormon is true.

For generations it has inspired those who read it. Herbert Schreiter had read
his German translation of the Book of Mormon. In it he read:

"When ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God,
the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and
if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in
Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy
Ghost.

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." [3]

Herbert Schreiter tested the promise and joined The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.

In 1946, released as a prisoner of war, Herbert returned to his wife and three
little daughters in Leipzig, Germany. Soon thereafter, he went as a missionary
to Bernburg, Germany. Alone, without a companion, he sat cold and hungry in a
room, wondering how he should begin.

He thought of what he had to offer the war-devastated people. He printed by
hand a placard which read, "Will there be a further life after death?" and
posted it on a wall.

About that same time, a family from a small village in Poland came to
Bernburg.

Manfred Schutze was four years old. His father had been killed in the war. His
mother, with his grandparents, and his mother's sister, also a widow, and her
two little girls, were forced to evacuate their village with only 30 minutes'
notice. They grabbed what they could and headed west. Manfred and his mother
pulled and pushed a small cart. At times, the ailing grandfather rode in the
cart. One Polish officer looked at the pathetic little Manfred and began to
weep.

At the border, soldiers ransacked their belongings and threw their bedding
into the river. Manfred and his mother were then separated from the family.
His mother wondered if they might have gone to Bernburg, where her grandmother
was born, perhaps to relatives there. After weeks of unbelievable suffering,
they arrived in Bernburg and found the family.

The seven of them lived together in one small room. But their troubles were
not over. The mother of the two little girls died. The grieving grandmother
cried out for a preacher, and asked, "Will I see my family again?"

The preacher answered, "My dear lady, there is no such thing as the
Resurrection. They who are dead are dead!"

They wrapped the body in a paper bag for burial.

On the way from the grave, the grandfather talked of taking their own lives,
as many others had done. Just then they saw the placard that Elder Schreiter
had posted on the building--"Is there further life after death?"--with an
invitation from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At a meeting,
they learned of the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ.

The book explains:

  * The purpose of mortal life and death, [4] 

  * The certainty of life after death, [5] 

  * What happens when the spirit leaves the body, [6] 

  * The description of the Resurrection, [7] 

  * How to receive and retain a remission of your sins, [8] 

  * What hold justice or mercy may have on you, [9] 

  * What to pray for, [10] 

  * Priesthood, [11] 

  * Covenants and ordinances, [12] 

  * The office and ministry of angels, [13] 

  * The still, small voice of personal revelation, [14] 

  * And preeminently, the mission of Jesus Christ, [15] 

  * And many other jewels that make up the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

They joined the Church. Soon their lives changed. The grandfather found work
as a baker and could provide bread for his family and also for Elder
Schreiter, who had given them "the bread of life." [16]

Then help came from the Church in the United States. Manfred grew up eating
grain out of little sacks with a picture of a beehive on them and peaches from
California. He wore clothes from the welfare supplies of the Church.

Soon after I was released from the air force, I went to the welfare mill at
Kaysville, Utah, to help fill bags of wheat for shipment to the starving
people in Europe. I like to think one of the bags of grain that I filled
myself went to Manfred Schutze and his mother. If not, it went to others in
equal need.

Elder Dieter Uchtdorf, who sits with us on the stand today as one of the
Seventy, remembers to this very day the smell of the grain and the feel of it
in his little-boy hands. Perhaps one of the bags I filled reached his family.

When I was about 10, I made my first attempt to read the Book of Mormon. The
first part was easy-flowing New Testament language. Then I came to the
writings of the Old Testament prophet Isaiah. I could not understand them; I
found them difficult to read. I laid the book aside.

I made other attempts to read the Book of Mormon. I did not read it all until
I was on a troop ship with other bomber crew members, headed for the war in
the Pacific. I determined that I would read the Book of Mormon and find out
for myself whether it is true or not. Carefully I read and reread the book. I
tested the promise that it contained. That was a life-changing event. After
that, I never set the book aside.

Many young people have done better than I did.

A 15-year-old son of a mission president attended high school with very few
members of the Church.

One day the class was given a true-or-false test. Matthew was confident that
he knew the answers to all except for question 15. It read, "Joseph Smith, the
alleged Mormon prophet, wrote the Book of Mormon. True or false?"

He could not answer it either way, so being a clever teenager, he rewrote the
question. He crossed out the word _alleged_ and replaced the word _wrote_ with
_translated._ It then read, "Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, translated the
Book of Mormon." He marked it true and handed it in.

The next day the teacher sternly asked why he had changed the question. He
smiled and said, "Because Joseph Smith did not _write_ the Book of Mormon, he
_translated_ it, and he was not an _alleged_ prophet, he _was_ a prophet."

He was then invited to tell the class how he knew that. [17]

In England, my wife and I became acquainted with Dorothy James, the widow of a
clergyman who lived at the Close of Winchester Cathedral. She brought out a
family Bible which was lost for many years.

Years before, the possessions of a family member had been sold. The new owner
found the Bible in a small desk that had remained unopened for over 20 years.
There were also some letters written by a child named Beaumont James. He was
able to find the James family and return the long-lost family Bible.

On the title page my wife read the following handwritten note: "This Bible has
been in our family since the time of Thomas James in 1683 who was a lineal
descendant of Thomas James first librarian of the Bodleian Library at Oxford,
who was buried in New College Chapel August 1629. [Signed] C. T. C. James,
1880."

The margins and the open pages were completely filled with notations written
in English, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. One entry particularly touched her. From
the bottom of the title page, she read, "The fairest Impression of the Bible
is to have it well printed on the Readers heart."

And then this quote from Corinthians: "Ye are our epistle written in our
hearts, known and read of all men: Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to
be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the
Spirit of the living God; not in the tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of
the heart. [2 Cor.
3:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-cor/3.2-3?lang=eng#1)." [18]

My Book of Mormon also has many notes in the margins and is heavily
underlined. I was in Florida once with President Hinckley. He turned from the
pulpit and asked for a copy of the scriptures. I handed him my copy. He
thumbed through it for a few seconds, turned and handed it back, saying, "I
can't read this. You have got everything crossed out!"

Amos prophesied of "a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst
for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord." [19]

In a world ever more dangerous than the world of little Manfred Schutze and
Dieter Uchtdorf, the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ has the
nourishing power to heal starving spirits of the world.

Manfred Schutze is now a member of the Third Quorum of Seventy and supervises
our seminaries in Eastern Europe. His mother, now 88, still attends the temple
at Freiberg where Herbert Schreiter once served as a counselor to the
president.

With Elder Walter F. Gonzalez, a new member of the Seventy from Uruguay, I
attended a conference in Moroni, Utah, a town with a Book of Mormon name.
There is no doctor or dentist in Moroni. They must leave town to shop for
groceries. Their students are bused to a consolidated high school across the
valley.

We held a meeting with 236 present. Lest Elder Gonzalez see only ordinary
rural farmers, I gave this sentence of testimony: "I know the gospel is true
and that Jesus is the Christ." I asked if someone could repeat it in Spanish.
Several hands went up. Could someone repeat it in another language? It was
repeated in:

Japanese

|

Chinese

|

Finnish  
  
---|---|---  
  
Spanish

|

Tongan

|

Maori  
  
German

|

Italian

|

Polish  
  
Portuguese

|

Tagalog

|

Korean  
  
Russian

|

Dutch

|

French  
  
15 languages

Again in English: I know the gospel is true and that Jesus is the Christ.

I love this Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ. Study it and
one can understand both the Old Testament and the New Testament in the Bible.
I know it is true.

In this 1830 edition of the Book of Mormon, printed by 23-year-old Egbert B.
Grandin for 23-year-old Joseph Smith Jr., I read from page 105: "We talk of
Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and
we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what
source they may look for a remission of their sins." [20]

And that, I assure you, is exactly what we do. In the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

## References

  1.  See [Ex. 28:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/28.30?lang=eng#29); [Lev. 8:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/lev/8.8?lang=eng#7); [Num. 27:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/num/27.21?lang=eng#20); [Deut. 33:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/33.8?lang=eng#7); [1 Sam. 28:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-sam/28.6?lang=eng#5); [Ezra 2:63](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ezra/2.63?lang=eng#62); [Neh. 7:65](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/neh/7.65?lang=eng#64).

  2.  John M'Clintock and James Strong, _Cyclopaedia of Biblical, Theological, and Ecclesiastical Literature_ (1867-1881), s.v. "Urim And Thummim."

  3.   [Moro. 10:4-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.4-5?lang=eng#3).

  4.  See [2 Ne. 2:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.21?lang=eng#20); [2 Ne. 33:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/33.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 12:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.24?lang=eng#23); [Alma 34:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.32?lang=eng#31); [Alma 42:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.4?lang=eng#3).

  5.  See [2 Ne. 9:3-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.3-7?lang=eng#2); [Mosiah 16:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/16.8?lang=eng#7); [3 Ne. 11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.title?lang=eng).

  6.  See [Alma 34:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.34?lang=eng#33); [Alma 40:11-14, 21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.11-14%2C21?lang=eng#10).

  7.  See [2 Ne. 9:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.12?lang=eng#11); [Alma 40:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.23?lang=eng#22); [Alma 41:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.2?lang=eng#1); [3 Ne. 11:1-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.1-16?lang=eng#0).

  8.  See [Mosiah 4:1-3, 12, 26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4.1-3%2C12%2C26?lang=eng#0); [Alma 4:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/4.14?lang=eng#13).

  9.  See [Alma 34:15-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.15-16?lang=eng#14); [Alma 41:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.14?lang=eng#13); [Alma 42:15-16, 22-25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/42.15-16%2C22-25?lang=eng#14).

  10.  See [2 Ne. 4:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/4.35?lang=eng#34); [2 Ne. 32:8-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.8-9?lang=eng#7); [Enos 1:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/enos/1.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 13:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.28?lang=eng#27); [Alma 34:17-27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.17-27?lang=eng#16); [Alma 37:36-37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.36-37?lang=eng#35); [3 Ne. 18:19-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.19-21?lang=eng#18); [Moro. 7:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.26?lang=eng#25).

  11.  See [2 Ne. 6:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/6.2?lang=eng#1); [Mosiah 18:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.18?lang=eng#17); [Alma 6:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/6.1?lang=eng#0); [Alma 13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.title?lang=eng); [3 Ne. 11:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.21?lang=eng#20); [3 Ne. 18:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/18.37?lang=eng#36); [Moro. 2:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/2.2?lang=eng#1); [Moro. 3:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/3.4?lang=eng#3).

  12.  See [2 Ne. 11:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/11.5?lang=eng#4); [Mosiah 5:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/5.5?lang=eng#4); [Mosiah 18:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/18.13?lang=eng#12); [Alma 13:8, 16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.8%2C16?lang=eng#7).

  13.  See [2 Ne. 32:2-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.2-3?lang=eng#1); [Omni 1:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/omni/1.25?lang=eng#24); [Moro. 7:25, 37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.25%2C37?lang=eng#24).

  14.  See [1 Ne. 16:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/16.9?lang=eng#8); [1 Ne. 17:44-45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17.44-45?lang=eng#43); [Enos 1:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/enos/1.10?lang=eng#9); [Alma 32:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.23?lang=eng#22); [Hel. 5:30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.30?lang=eng#29); [3 Ne. 11:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.3?lang=eng#2).

  15.  See [1 Ne. 11:13-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.13-33?lang=eng#12); [2 Ne. 2:6-10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.6-10?lang=eng#5); [Mosiah 3:5-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.5-12?lang=eng#4); [Alma 7:7-13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.7-13?lang=eng#6); [3 Ne. 27:13-16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.13-16?lang=eng#12).

  16.   [John 6:35](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/6.35?lang=eng#34).

  17.  See George D. Durrant, "Helping Your Children Be Missionaries," _Ensign,_ Oct. 1977, 67.

  18.  As quoted in Donna Smith Packer, _On Footings from the Past: The Packers in England _(1988), 329.

  19.   [Amos 8:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/amos/8.11?lang=eng#10).

  20.  The Book of Mormon (1830), 105; see also [2 Ne. 25:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.26?lang=eng#25).

