# “One Small Step for a Man;One Giant Leap for Mankind”

I pray for the influence of the Holy Spirit as I discuss with you a most
sacred subject--a subject that I hope will have special significance to those
of you who may be investigating the Church. On July 20, 1969, astronauts
landed on the moon, a planet located some 239,000 miles from the earth.
Millions of people the world over witnessed this historic event on television
and stared in amazement as the lunar module came to rest on the moon's
surface. All were thrilled when Neil Armstrong exited from the space craft and
announced: "One small step for a man; one giant leap for mankind."

The press coverage of this monumental achievement was broad. It occupied
headlines and was the subject of feature stories for many days. After all, the
moon-landing had opened new frontiers of space travel, revealed new knowledge
about the universe, and represented a major investment of human resources.
Some reporters declared that the moon landing was the greatest event in the
history of mankind since the resurrection of Christ.

I do stand in awe of the recent developments in space technology. My mind does
not comprehend even a fraction of the miracles wrought by knowledgeable men of
the world who have probed the universe. However, I take issue with those who
believe that the placement of men upon the moon is the greatest occurrence of
the last two thousand years. I do so because I know of an event wherein the
Creator of the universe himself came to earth in answer to an obscure boy's
humble prayer and revealed pure theology.

Greatness is measured by men in many ways. It is generally equated with size,
cost, quantity, and position. God, however, has a better way, "for as the
heavens are higher than the earth, so are [His] ways higher than [man's]
ways." ([Isa. 55:9](/scriptures/ot/isa/55.9?lang=eng#8).) In God's eyes,
greatness is equated with light, truth, goodness, and service. (See [D&amp;C
93:36](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.36?lang=eng#35); [Matt.
23:11](/scriptures/nt/matt/23.11?lang=eng#10).)

We are taught that eternal life is "the _greatest_ of all the gifts of God"
([D&amp;C 14:7](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/14.7?lang=eng#6); italics added),
and that eternal life is to know "the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom
[He has] sent." ([John 17:3](/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2).) Therefore,
it is concluded that anyone who would introduce the only true God to mankind
and unwrap the gift of eternal life, making it available to all, would be a
partaker of greatness and be associated with great events.

The obscure young man of whom I speak, who introduced the true and living God
to a benighted world, was not sponsored by an organization or trained by a
group of professionals. At the time, he was no prophet, nor was he a prophet's
son. But like many who have been called in times past to perform a holy work,
he was a common farm boy. (See [Amos
7:14-16](/scriptures/ot/amos/7.14-16?lang=eng#13).)

He was the product of a God-fearing family--a family that thirsted after
righteousness and exercised a simple but deep faith in the Lord. His school
was the home, his teachers were loving parents, and his textbook was the Holy
Bible. Yet, at the tender age of fourteen, he demonstrated a type of faith
which had power to thrust him into the presence of Deity. (See [Mark
9:23](/scriptures/nt/mark/9.23?lang=eng#22).)

There were no cameras trained upon him when he stepped into that grove of
trees in upper New York state. There were no cheering throngs or support
personnel to provide him encouragement. Nor were there newspaper reporters on
hand to describe his actions. He knelt alone under the gaze of his Heavenly
Father and offered up the sincere desires of his heart with perfect confidence
that his voice would be heard. He was unaware of the muted applause of unseen
multitudes who had waited so patiently for the dawning of a new day and the
restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

His investment in working the miracle was not money, machines, manpower, or
even the trappings of science; his was an investment of living faith and an
indomitable will.

Joseph Smith's prayer and first vision in 1820 were no small things, even
though they began as "one small step for a [young] man." Over the years they
have proven to be "one giant leap for mankind"; for that act of supreme faith
ended a long night of spiritual darkness, opened up a flood of unadulterated
truths, and ushered in the dispensation of the fulness of times.

We are told that the spin-off effects of the moon mission were many. Such
benefits are reflected in all the materials about us. However, the
consequences of Joseph Smith's first vocal prayer and his probe into the
unknown are infinitely greater and should be pondered seriously by all who are
interested in "things as they _really_ are, and of things as they _really_
will be." ([Jacob 4:13](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13?lang=eng#12); italics
added.)

Joseph did not emerge from the grove with lunar rocks in his pocket or with
moon dust on his shoes. He emerged with a changed countenance and with a gold
mine of truth lodged in his mind and heart:

  1. Joseph learned that there are no winners in wars of words or tumults of opinion regarding religious matters. (See [JS--H 1:12](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.12?lang=eng#11).) Such contention plays into the hands of Satan because he is the "father of contention." ([3 Ne. 11:29](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.29?lang=eng#28).) 
  2. Joseph learned of "the power of some actual being from the unseen world" which bound his tongue and enveloped him in thick darkness as he began to pray. (See [JS--H 1:16](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.16?lang=eng#15).) This power was exerted by the evil one, who viewed Joseph Smith as a threat to his realm of sin and error. 
  3. Joseph learned what Moses had learned years before about Satan's darkness and nothingness, as compared with the light and liberty associated with God. (See [Moses 1:10-15](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.10-15?lang=eng#9).) Said Joseph: 
  4. Joseph learned that he was made in the image of God, exactly as the scriptures attest. In his own words: 
  5. Joseph learned that none of the churches of the day were right and that he should not join any of them. He recounts: 
  6. Joseph learned why he must not align himself with an existing church. His words are: 
  7. Joseph learned that "the testimony of James [was] true--that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided." ([JS--H 1:26](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.26?lang=eng#25).) 
  8. Soon thereafter, Joseph learned "that God had a work for [him] to do" and that his name should be made known among all nations, kindreds, and tongues. (See [JS--H 1:33](/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.33?lang=eng#32).) 

Such prophecy has been fulfilled as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints has been established and as the fulness of the gospel has been preached
in all the world.

Yes, it all started so quietly, so simply, and so very wonderfully. A
believing boy took "one small step" and prayed. A loving Father in Heaven
listened and responded. What has resulted is rightfully referred to as "one
giant leap for mankind."

All the towers ever built and all the spaceships ever launched pale in
comparison with Joseph Smith's first vision. Though men fly higher and higher
into the heavens, they will not find God or see his face unless they humble
themselves, pray, and heed the truths revealed through the Prophet of the
Restoration.

Some have foolishly said, "Take away Joseph Smith and his prayer in the grove
and the First Vision and we can accept your message." Such people would have
us bury the treasure of saving truths already cited, and many more, and turn
our backs to "the most important event that had taken place in all world
history from the day of Christ's ministry to the glorious hour when it
occurred." (Bruce R. McConkie, _Mormon Doctrine,_ 2d ed., Salt Lake City:
Bookcraft, 1968, p. 285.)

Joseph Smith "lived great" and "died great in the eyes of God." ([D&amp;C
135:3](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/135.3?lang=eng#2).) He "has done more, save
Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that
ever lived in it." (135:3.)

His prayer was--

_one small step for a [young] man, [but]_

_one giant leap for mankind._

_[It proved that]_

_There isn't a thing that man cannot do,_

_[if he has faith, trusts in the Lord, and]_

_If he takes one small step at a time._

Yes, "praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." (_Hymns,_ 1985, no. 27)
and who was instrumental in translating the Book of Mormon, restoring the holy
priesthood, organizing The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
revealing the fulness of the gospel.

I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, for the fruits of his labors are sweet
and abiding, and the Holy Spirit has borne witness to my soul. I feel honored
to blend my voice with the chorus of millions who testify of his greatness and
divine calling. I also know that "the Lord God doth work by means to bring
about his great and eternal purposes; and by very small means the Lord doth
confound the wise and bringeth about the salvation of many souls." ([Alma
37:7](/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.7?lang=eng#6).) In the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

## References

