# The Book of Mormon: A Sacred Ancient Record

Some people place faith in good luck symbols, even a rabbit's foot, but
remember, it didn't do the rabbit any good.

I do not wish to be light-minded, but I believe we should ask ourselves if we
truly and seriously place our faith where it belongs and rely upon the merits
of Christ. Do we have an assurance that salvation comes only through him and
that he will take upon himself our burdens and sorrows if we place unwavering
faith in him?

The scriptures state, "They are they which testify of [God]" ([John
5:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/5.39?lang=eng#38)). Eternal life
is knowing God and his Holy Son (see [John
17:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2)). One can know
him by searching the Book of Mormon. Every page testifies of him. The changes
published in the Book of Mormon in 1981 go back beyond the first edition of
1830 to the handwritten manuscript.

The Book of Mormon is a sacred, ancient American document recorded by writers
as the events unfolded, starting more than two thousand years ago.

The Book of Mormon is a record of families that the Lord led to the Americas
for specific purposes. Three groups left the land of Jerusalem and crossed the
oceans, beginning several centuries _before_ the birth of our Savior, and
arrived in the promised land, the Americas.

Ancient American texts written by native Americans support this origin. For
example, a translator of the _Title of the Lords of Totonicapan,_ the original
text of which was recorded in 1554 in the language of the Quiche of Guatemala
from legends centuries old, states:

"The three great Quiche nations ... are descendants of the Ten Tribes of the
Kingdom of Israel, whom Shalmaneser reduced to perpetual captivity and who,
finding themselves on the border of Assyria, resolved to emigrate. ...

"These, then, were the three nations of Quiches, and they came from where the
sun rises, descendants of Israel, of the same language and same customs. ...
They were sons of Abraham and Jacob. ...

"Now on the twenty-eighth of September of 1554 we sign this attestation in
which we have written that which by tradition our ancestors told us, who came
from the other part of the sea, from Civan-Tulan, bordering on Babylonia"
(_Title of the Lords of Totonicapan,_ trans. Dionisio Jose Chonay and Delia
Goetz, Norman, Oklahoma: University of Oklahoma Press, 1953, pp. 167, 170,
194).

Elder Mark E. Petersen, a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, wrote:
"As the ancient Israelites suffered a dispersion which sprinkled them among
all the nations, so the descendants of Laman and Lemuel [sons of Lehi] were
sifted over the vast areas of the western hemisphere. _They are found from
pole to pole_" (_Children of Promise,_ Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1981, p. 31;
emphasis added).

_Many_ migratory groups came to the Americas, but none was as important as the
three mentioned in the Book of Mormon. The blood of these people flows in the
veins of the Blackfoot and the Blood Indians of Alberta, Canada; in the Navajo
and the Apache of the American Southwest; the Inca of western South America;
the Aztec of Mexico; the Maya of Guatemala; and in other native American
groups in the Western Hemisphere and the Pacific islands.

These choice native people recognize the truth of the Book of Mormon, which
was recorded for them by their own ancestors. President Spencer W. Kimball
said:

"The converted Lamanite is devout. Few ever apostatize. Some lose their way as
they partake of the worldliness about them, but generally the children of Lehi
of the twentieth century have inherited that grace and ability to believe like
their ancestors of the long ago. We read in [Hel.
6:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/6.36?lang=eng#35): 'And thus we
see that the Lord began to pour out his Spirit upon the Lamanites, because of
_their easiness and willingness to believe in his words_'" (_The Teachings of
Spencer W. Kimball,_ ed. Edward L. Kimball [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1982],
p. 178; emphasis added).

Every ecclesiastical authority of _any church_ and every agnostic should
rejoice and praise God for having sent the priceless Book of Mormon to them or
to us. _Why?_ Because it is a sacred, second, undeniable witness to the world
that God lives and Jesus is the very Christ, our Redeemer.

The _first witness_ is the Holy Bible, which testifies of the Master from the
Middle East. The Lord said in [John
10:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/10.16?lang=eng#15) that other
sheep would hear His voice. The Lord came to the Americas after His
resurrection and said: "And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I
said: Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring,
and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd"
([3 Ne. 15:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/15.21?lang=eng#20)).
Two such witnesses cannot be denied without placing the soul in peril.

The crucial messages or purposes of the Book of Mormon are shown on its title
page: "To show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the
Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the
Lord ... And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the
CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations."

Ancient American literature contains references to a white, bearded god who
descended out of the heavens. He is called by many names; one example is
Quetzalcoatl. Historians of the sixteenth century, whose texts I have,
recorded pre-Hispanic beliefs concerning the white, bearded god who came to
the Americas _long before_ the arrival of the Spanish conquerors. The
following paragraphs contain examples of these beliefs.

_Bernardo de Sahagun_ (born 1499) wrote: "Quetzalcoatl was esteemed and
considered as a god, and was worshipped in older times. He had long hair and
was bearded. The people worshipped only the Lord" (_Historia General de las
Cosas de Nueva España,_ Mexico: Editorial Porrua, S. A., 1985, pp. 195, 598).

_Diego Duran_ (born 1537) wrote: "A great man--a person venerable and
religious--bearded, tall, long hair, dignified deportment, heroic acts,
miracles--I affirm he could have been one of the blessed apostles" (_Historia
de las Indias de Nueva España,_ 1867, first ed., 2 vols., Mexico: Editorial
Porrua, S. A., 1967, 1:9).

_Bartolome de las Casas_ (born 1474) wrote that Quetzalcoatl, the plumed
serpent, was white, had a rounded beard, was tall, and came from the sea in
the east, from whence he will return (see _Los Indios de Mexico y Nueva España
Antologia,_ Mexico: Editorial Porrua, S. A., 1982, pp. 54, 218, 223).

The Tamanacos Indian tribes in Venezuela have the same legend of a white,
bearded god: "[Amalivaca] had a face the color of the light fluffy clouds of
the morning, and white was his long head of hair. ... He said: 'I am Amalivaca,
and I come in the name of my father INA-UIKI'" (Arturo Hellmund Tello,
_Leyendas Indigenas del Bajo Orinoco,_ trans. Ted E. Brewerton, Buenos Aires,
Argentina: Imprenta Lopez Peru 666, 1948, pp. 19-22).

The Book of Mormon gives an accurate account of the coming of the Lord to
ancient America.

When we accept the ancient roots of the book and believe that Joseph Smith did
have ancient records that could not be in English, we then may ask how he
translated them. The only reasonable answer is the way he said: by divine
revelation.

What would be more perilous to us, eternally, than to say the Book of Mormon
is holy scripture if it were not? Those who have questions or concerns about
the Church may cling in security to this firm anchor that is immutable and
tangible evidence of the truthfulness of the Church.

The Book of Mormon prophet Nephi wrote: "For we labor diligently to write, to
persuade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be
reconciled to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after
all we can do" ([2 Ne.
25:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.23?lang=eng#22)).

Elder B. H. Roberts wrote in 1909:

"[The Holy Ghost] must ever be the chief source of evidence for the truth of
the Book of Mormon. All other evidence is secondary to this, the primary and
infallible. No arrangement of evidence, however skilfully ordered; no
argument, however adroitly made, can ever take [the] place [of the Holy
Ghost]. ...

"Secondary evidences in support of truth, like secondary causes in natural
phenomena, may be of firstrate importance, and mighty factors in the
achievement of God's purposes" (_New Witnesses for God,_ Salt Lake City,
Deseret News, 1909, pp. vi-vii).

The sun rises rather quietly, and at times we think that the Lord's voice is
that quiet, but his voice is audible if we will only pray, meditate, and
listen as he places clear thoughts in our minds.

As surely as the sun rises, God lives, as does his Almighty Son. As surely as
the sun rises daily, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is _his._

Because the sun rises, we see everything else.

Because Jesus Christ lives, we see by his light eternal, unchanging truths and
an illuminated path showing the purpose of our premortal life, the reason for
our current existence, and the effect of premortal and mortal life on our life
after what we call death.

The Bible is a witness.

The Book of Mormon is a witness.

I am one of the witnesses that he _is_ risen, and he _is_ coming. In the name
of Jesus Christ, amen.

