# Washed Clean

My message is to our young people. We have great concern for young people who
grow up without values on which to base their conduct. I have long believed
that the study of the doctrines of the gospel will improve behavior quicker
than talking about behavior will improve behavior.

The study of behavior is greatly improved when linked to standards and to
values. Practical values, useful in everyday life, are found in the scriptures
and the doctrines they reveal. I will give you one example: "We believe that
through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the
laws and ordinances of the Gospel."[1]

You should learn while you are young that while the Atonement of Christ
applies to humanity in general, the influence of it is individual, very
personal, and very useful. Even to you beginners, an understanding of the
Atonement is of immediate and very practical value in everyday life.

More than 50 years ago during World War II, I had an experience. Our bomber
crew had been trained at Langley Field, Virginia, to use the latest invention
--radar. We were ordered to the West Coast and then on to the Pacific.

We were transported on a freight train with boxcars fitted with narrow
bedsprings that could be pulled down from the wall at night. There were no
dining cars. Instead, camp kitchens were set up in boxcars with dirt floors.

We were dressed in light-colored summer uniforms. The baggage car got
sidetracked, so we had no change of clothing during the six-day trip. It was
very hot crossing Texas and Arizona. Smoke and cinders from the engine made it
very uncomfortable. There was no way to bathe or wash our uniforms. We rolled
into Los Angeles one morning--a grubby-looking outfit--and were told to return
to the train that evening.

We thought first of food. The 10 of us in our crew pooled our money and headed
for the best restaurant we could find.

It was crowded, and so we joined a long line waiting to be seated. I was
first, just behind some well-dressed women. Even without turning around, the
stately woman in front of me soon became aware that we were there.

She turned and looked at us. Then she turned and looked me over from head to
toe. There I stood in that sweaty, dirty, sooty, wrinkled uniform. She said in
a tone of disgust, "My, what untidy men!" All eyes turned to us.

No doubt she wished we were not there; I shared her wish. I felt as dirty as I
was, uncomfortable, and ashamed.

Later, when I began a serious study of the scriptures, I noticed references to
being spiritually clean. One verse says, "Ye would be more miserable to dwell
with a holy and just God, under a consciousness of your filthiness before him,
than ye would to dwell with the damned souls in hell."[2]

I could understand that. I remembered how I felt that day in Los Angeles. I
reasoned that to be spiritually unclean would bring shame and humiliation
immeasurably more intense than I felt then. I found references--there are at
least eight of them--which say that no unclean thing can enter the presence of
God.[3] While I realized those references had little to do with dirty clothes
or soiled hands, I decided I wanted to stay spiritually clean.

Incidentally, that day we went canoeing in Griffith Park. We were horsing
around and, of course, tipped over. We got to shore all right, and in due time
the sun dried us out. By the time we returned to the train, we were really
quite presentable.

I learned that when I didn't live as I ought to, getting myself spiritually
clean was not as easy as taking a shower or putting on clean clothing or
falling out of a canoe.

I learned about the great plan of happiness, that we are on earth to be
tested. We will all make mistakes. The Apostle John taught, "If we say that we
have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us." Fortunately he
added, "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our
sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness."[4] I paid particular
attention to that word _cleanse._

I thought that repentance, like soap, should be used frequently. I found that
when I apologized for mistakes, things were better. But for serious mistakes,
an apology was not enough--sometimes not even possible. While these mistakes
were, for the most part, not major ones, the spiritual pain called _guilt_
invariably set in. Sooner or later they must be resolved, but I didn't know
what to do. That happens when you break something that you alone can't fix.

Among you young people are those who are "vexed," as Peter said, "with the
filthy conversation of the wicked."[5] Some of you joke about standards and
see no need to change behavior. You tell yourselves it doesn't matter because
"everybody's doing it."

But that doesn't work because you, by nature, are good. How many times have
you heard someone say, after doing some generous or heroic deed or simply
helping others, how _good_ it made them feel? Like any natural feeling or
emotion, that reaction is inborn in you. Surely you have experienced that
yourself! Happiness is inseparably connected with decent, clean behavior.

The prophet Alma bluntly told his wayward son that because he transgressed he
was "in a state contrary to the nature of happiness" and that "wickedness
never was happiness."[6] Those who don't know how to erase mistakes often feel
cornered and rebellious and lose themselves in unworthy living. If you travel
with transgressors, you will suffer much more than I did in that restaurant.

Most mistakes you can repair yourself, alone, through prayerful repentance.
The more serious ones require help. Without help, you are like one who can't
or doesn't wash or bathe or put on clean clothes. The path you need to follow
is in the scriptures. Read them and your faith in Christ will grow. Listen to
those who know the gospel.

You will learn about the Fall of man, about the purpose of life, about good
and evil, about temptations and repentance, about how the Spirit works. Read
what Alma said of his repentance: "I could remember my pains no more; yea, I
was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no more."[7]

Hear the Lord say, "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is
forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more."[8] Doctrine _can_ change
behavior quicker than talking about behavior will.

It was through reading the scriptures, and listening, that I could understand,
at least in part, the power of the Atonement. Can you imagine how I felt when
finally I could see that if I followed whatever conditions the Redeemer had
set, I need never endure the agony of being spiritually unclean? Imagine the
consoling, liberating, exalting feeling that will come to you when you see the
reality of the Atonement and the practical everyday value of it to you
individually.

You need not know everything before the power of the Atonement will work for
you. Have faith in Christ; it begins to work the day you ask! The scripture
speaks of "obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel."[9] We all
pretty well know what it means to obey laws. But how are we to obey
ordinances?

Generally we understand that, conditioned upon repentance, the ordinance of
baptism washes our sins away. Some wonder if they were baptized too soon. If
only they could be baptized now and have a clean start. But that is not
necessary! Through the ordinance of the sacrament, you renew the covenants
made at baptism. When you meet all of the conditions of repentance, however
difficult, you may be forgiven and your transgressions will trouble your mind
no more.

President Joseph F. Smith was six years old when his father, Hyrum, was killed
in Carthage Jail. Joseph crossed the plains with his widowed mother. At age 15
he was called on a mission to Hawaii. He felt lost and alone and said: "I was
very much oppressed. ... I was almost naked and entirely friendless, except the
friendship of a poor, benighted ... people. I felt as if I was so debased in my
condition of poverty, lack of intelligence and knowledge, just a boy, that I
hardly dared look [anyone] in the face."

While pondering his plight, the young elder had a dream, "a literal thing; ... a
reality." He dreamed he was on a journey rushing as fast as he possibly could.

He carried a small bundle. Finally he came to a wonderful mansion, his
destination. As he approached, he saw a notice, "Bath." He turned aside
quickly, went in, and washed himself clean. He opened his little bundle and
found clean, white clothing--"a thing," he said, "I had not seen for a long
time." He put them on and rushed to the door of the mansion.

"I knocked," he said, "and the door opened, and the man who stood there was
the Prophet Joseph Smith. He looked at me a little reprovingly, and the first
words he said [were]: 'Joseph, you are late.' ... I took confidence and said:

"'Yes, but I am clean--I am clean!'"[10] And so it can be with you.

I say to you again that a knowledge of the principles and doctrines of the
gospel will affect your behavior more than talking about behavior.

I have used the Atonement as one of many examples. In the gospel of Jesus
Christ are values on which to build a happy life.

I give you my testimony that our Father in Heaven lives. The Atonement of
Christ can bless your life. If only I could tell you what the Atonement means
to me. I once tried to express it in writing and close with these lines:

_ In ancient times the cry "Unclean!"_

_Would warn of lepers near._

_ "Unclean! Unclean!" the words rang out;_

_Then all drew back in fear,_

_Lest by the touch of lepers' hands_

_They, too, would lepers be._

_ There was no cure in ancient times,_

_Just hopeless agony. _

No soap, no balm, no medicine

Could stay disease or pain.

There was no salve, no cleansing bath,

To make them well again.

_But there was One, the record shows,_

_Whose touch could make them pure;_

_ Could ease their awful suffering,_

_Their rotting flesh restore._

_His coming long had been foretold._

_Signs would precede His birth._

_ A Son of God to woman born,_

_With power to cleanse the earth._

_The day He made ten lepers whole,_

_The day He made them clean,_

_ Well symbolized His ministry_

_And what His life would mean._

_However great that miracle,_

_This was not why He came._

_ He came to rescue every soul_

_From death, from sin, from shame._

_For greater miracles, He said,_

_His servants yet would do,_

_ To rescue every living soul,_

_Not just heal up the few._

_Though we're redeemed from mortal death,_

_We still can't enter in_

_ Unless we're clean, cleansed every whit,_

_From every mortal sin._

_What must be done to make us clean_

_We cannot do alone._

_ The law, to be a law, requires_

_A pure one must atone._

_He taught that justice will be stayed_

_Till mercy's claim be heard_

_ If we repent and are baptized_

_And live by every word. ..._

_If we could only understand_

_All we have heard and seen,_

_ We'd know there is no greater gift_

_Than those two words--"Washed clean!"_[11]

In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1. [A of F 1:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.3?lang=eng#2).

  2. [Morm. 9:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/9.4?lang=eng#3).

  3. See [1 Ne. 10:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.21?lang=eng#20); [1 Ne. 15:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.34?lang=eng#33); [Alma 7:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.21?lang=eng#20); [Alma 11:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.37?lang=eng#36); [Alma 40:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/40.26?lang=eng#25); [3 Ne. 27:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.19?lang=eng#18); [D&amp;C 94:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/94.9?lang=eng#8); [Moses 6:57](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.57?lang=eng#56).

  4. [1 Jn. 1:8-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-jn/1.8-9?lang=eng#7).

  5. [2 Pet. 2:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/2.7?lang=eng#6).

  6. [Alma 41:10-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.10-11?lang=eng#9).

  7. [Alma 36:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.19?lang=eng#18).

  8. [D&amp;C 58:42](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/58.42?lang=eng#41); see also [Heb. 8:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/8.12?lang=eng#11); [Heb. 10:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/10.17?lang=eng#16).

  9. [A of F 1:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.3?lang=eng#2).

  10. Joseph F. Smith, _Gospel Doctrine,_ 5th ed. (1939), 541-42.

  11. Boyd K. Packer, "Washed Clean."

