# “Brightness of Hope”

As I raised my arm this morning, I raise my voice this afternoon gladly to
sustain President Hunter. He is a meek and special man. And, as we've heard
the testimonies from two new Apostles whom we sustained this morning, I raise
my sustaining voice this afternoon. I rejoice in two outstanding new Seventies
and in new special sister leaders.

For some years, brothers and sisters, there has been an increasing and
profound sense of existential despair in the world. This mortal hopelessness
both reflects and affects much of mankind. Whether tribal or national, wars
constitute "the continued experience of twentieth-century man" (Paul Fussell,
_The Great War and Modern Memory,_ London: Oxford University Press, 1975, p.
74). A grumpy cynicism pervades politics in so many places on this planet.
Holocausts, famine, pestilence, and tides of refugees have taken a terrible
toll on human hope, with much of that toll coming from man-made, avoidable
disasters. Causality can be assigned to one or another form of iniquity. No
wonder, as the scriptures say, despair comes of iniquity! (See [Moro.
10:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.22?lang=eng#21).)

Of course, many disagree over what constitutes sin, but surely they do not
welcome the deepening of human despair! Some moderns do not lament the loss of
traditional faith either, but surely they lament the further loss of hope and
charity, ever in such short supply anyway.

Does hope really matter, or is it merely an antique virtue?

Without hope, what is the future of lubricating forgiveness among the human
family? Without hope, why forgo now in order to preserve precious resources
for future generations? Without hope, what will keep the remaining idealism
from also souring into cynicism and thereby laying waste to governments and
families--institutions already in such serious jeopardy?

A coalition of consequences is emerging. As prophesied, the love of many waxes
cold (see [Matt.
24:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.12?lang=eng#11)). Even those
affectionally secure themselves can sense the chill in the air. The loss of
hope sends selfishness surging, as many turn, even more intensively, to
pleasing themselves. The diminished sense of sin diminishes shame, that hot,
sharp spur needed for repentance. Shame is often replaced by the arrogance of
those morally adrift, including strutting celebrities whose outer boldness
camouflages their inner emptiness. Henry David Thoreau correctly observed that
"unconscious despair is concealed even under what are called the games and
amusement of mankind" (_Walden,_ New York: Harper and Row, 1965, p. 7). No
wonder so much hollow laughter emanates from the "lonely crowd."

As societies trivialize traditional values, we witness a flow of immense
suffering. We anguish, for instance, over what happens to the unborn, who
cannot vote, and to children at risk. We weep over children having children
and children shooting children. Often secular remedies to these challenges are
not based on spiritual principles. To borrow a metaphor--secular remedies
resemble an alarmed passenger traveling on the wrong train who tries to
compensate by running up the aisle in the opposite direction!

Only the acceptance of the revelations of God can bring both direction and
correction and, in turn, bring a "brightness of hope" ([2 Ne.
31:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.20?lang=eng#19)). Real hope
does not automatically "spring eternal" unless it is connected with eternal
things!

"What is it that ye shall hope for?" Moroni wrote. "Behold I say unto you that
ye shall have hope through the atonement of Christ" ([Moro.
7:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.41?lang=eng#40); see also
[Alma 27:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/27.28?lang=eng#27)).
From this triumphal act, resulting in the eventual resurrection of all
mankind, so many lesser hopes derive their significance!

Prophets have always had and taught ultimate hope in Christ. Jacob wrote, "We
knew of Christ, and we had a hope of his glory many hundred years before his
coming; and ... also all the holy prophets which were before us" ([Jacob
4:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.4?lang=eng#3)).

You and I can be repeatedly reassured concerning this grand hope by the
Comforter, who teaches us the truth about "things as they really are, and ...
really will be" ([Jacob
4:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13?lang=eng#12); see also
[Moro. 8:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/8.26?lang=eng#25)). Such
hope constitutes the "anchor of the soul" ([Heb.
6:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/6.19?lang=eng#18)). Such hope is
retained through faith in Christ (see [Alma
25:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/25.16?lang=eng#15); [Ether
12:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.9?lang=eng#8)). In
contrast, a resurrection-less view of life produces only proximate hope (see
[1 Cor. 15:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/15.19?lang=eng#18)).

Having ultimate hope does not mean we will always be rescued from proximate
problems, but we will be rescued from everlasting death! Meanwhile, ultimate
hope makes it possible to say the same three words used centuries ago by three
valiant men. They knew God could rescue them from the fiery furnace, if He
chose. "But if not," they said, nevertheless, they would still serve Him!
([Dan. 3:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/dan/3.18?lang=eng#17).)

Unsurprisingly the triad of faith, hope, and charity, which brings us to
Christ, has strong and converging linkage: faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ,
hope is in His atonement, and charity is the "pure love of Christ"! (See
[Ether 12:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.28?lang=eng#27);
[Moro. 7:47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.47?lang=eng#46).) Each
of these attributes qualifies us for the celestial kingdom (see [Moro.
10:20-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.20-21?lang=eng#19);
[Ether 12:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.34?lang=eng#33)).
Each, first of all, requires us to be meek and lowly (see [Moro. 7:39,
43](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/7.39%2C43?lang=eng#38)).

Faith and hope are constantly interactive, and may not always be precisely
distinguished or sequenced. Though not perfect knowledge either, hope's
enlivened expectations are "with surety" true ([Ether
12:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.4?lang=eng#3); see also
[Rom. 8:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/8.24?lang=eng#23); [Heb.
11:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/11.1?lang=eng#0); [Alma
32:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.21?lang=eng#20)). In the
geometry of restored theology, hope has a greater circumference than faith. If
faith increases, the perimeter of hope stretches correspondingly.

Just as doubt, despair, and desensitization go together, so do faith, hope,
and charity. The latter, however, must be carefully and constantly nurtured,
whereas despair, like dandelions, needs so little encouragement to sprout and
spread. Despair comes so naturally to the natural man!

Souls can be roused and rallied by hope's "reveille" as by no other music.
Even if comrades slumber or desert, "lively hope" performs like a
reconnoitering scout out in advance of God's columns; "there is hope smiling
brightly before us" (see [1 Pet.
1:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/1.3?lang=eng#2); _Hymns,_ 1985,
no. 19). Hope caused disciples to go quickly and expectantly to an empty
garden tomb (see [Mark
16:1-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/16.1-8?lang=eng#0); [Luke
24:8-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/24.8-12?lang=eng#7)). Hope
helped a prophet to see rescuing rain in a distant cloud which appeared to be
no larger than a man's hand (see [1 Kgs.
18:41-46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/18.41-46?lang=eng#40)).

Significantly, those who look forward to a next and better world are usually
"anxiously engaged" in improving this one, for they "always abound in good
works" ([D&amp;C 58:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/58.27?lang=eng#26); [Alma
7:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.24?lang=eng#23)). Thus, real
hope is much more than wishful musing. It stiffens, not slackens, the
spiritual spine. It is composed, not giddy, eager without being naive, and
pleasantly steady without being smug. Hope is realistic anticipation taking
the form of determination--a determination not merely to survive but to
"endure ... well" to the end ([D&amp;C 121:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.8?lang=eng#7)).

While weak hope leaves us at the mercy of our moods and events, "brightness of
hope" produces illuminated individuals. Their luminosity is seen, and things
are also seen by it! Such hope permits us to "press forward" even when dark
clouds oppress (see [2 Ne. 31:16,
20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.16%2C20?lang=eng#15); [Heb.
6:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/6.19?lang=eng#18); [Ether
12:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.4?lang=eng#3); [Col.
1:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/1.23?lang=eng#22)). Sometimes in
the deepest darkness there is no external light--only an inner light to guide
and to reassure.

Though "anchored" in grand and ultimate hope, some of our tactical hopes are
another matter. We may hope for a pay raise, a special date, an electoral
victory, or for a bigger house--things which may or may not be realized. Faith
in Father's plan gives us endurance even amid the wreckage of such proximate
hopes. Hope keeps us "anxiously engaged" in good causes even when these appear
to be losing causes (see [D&amp;C 58:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/58.27?lang=eng#26)).

Hope helps us to walk by faith, not by sight. This can actually be safer. When
unaided spiritually, natural sight often shrinks from the odds (see [2 Cor.
5:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-cor/5.7?lang=eng#6)). It is
immobilized by improbabilities. Mauled by his moods and intimidated by his
fears, the natural man overreacts to, while hope overrides, the
disappointments of the day.

Hope is particularly needed in the hand-to-hand combat required to put off the
natural man (see [Mosiah
3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18)). Giving up
on God and on oneself constitutes simultaneous surrender to the natural man.

Daily hope is vital, since the "Winter Quarters" of our lives are not
immediately adjacent to our promised land either. An arduous trek still
awaits, but hope spurs weary disciples on.

Those with true hope often see their personal circumstances shaken, like
kaleidoscopes, again and again. Yet with the "eye of faith," they still see
divine pattern and purpose ([Alma
5:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.15?lang=eng#14)).

By pressing forward, we can stand on what was yesterday's horizon, thereby
drawing hope from our own experiences. Hence Paul described how "tribulation
worketh patience; and patience, experience; and experience, hope" ([Rom.
5:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/5.3-4?lang=eng#2)). Therefore we
sing, "We've proved him in days that are past" (_Hymns,_ 1985, no. 19).

Hope feasts on the words of Christ, "written for our learning," so that
"having all these witnesses" through the "comfort of the scriptures [we] might
have hope" ([Rom.
15:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/15.4?lang=eng#3); [Jacob
4:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.6?lang=eng#5); see also [2
Ne. 31:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.20?lang=eng#19)). We
sing, too, of how "more holiness" involves having "more hope in his word"
(_Hymns,_ 1985, no. 131).

Genuine hope is urgently needed in order to be more loving even as the love of
many waxes cold; more merciful, even when misunderstood or misrepresented;
more holy, even as the world ripens in iniquity; more courteous and patient in
a coarsening and curt world; and more full of heartfelt hope, even when other
men's hearts fail them. Whatever our particular furrow, we are to "plow in
hope," without looking back or letting yesterday hold tomorrow hostage ([1
Cor. 9:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/9.10?lang=eng#9)).

Hope can be contagious, so we are to be "ready always to give an answer to
every man that asketh ... a reason of the hope that is in [us]" ([1 Pet.
3:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/3.15?lang=eng#14)). If, said
Brother Brigham, we do not impart knowledge to others and do good, then we
"will become ... contracted" in our views and feelings (_Journal of Discourses,_
2:267). Despair is contraction at the end of its journey.

Genuine hope gives spiritual spunk, including to deserving parents drenched in
honest sweat from being "anxiously engaged." Just as the leaning Tower of Pisa
is a persistent rebuke to architectural pessimism, so parental hope--by
refusing to topple merely because of the gravity of the current family
situation--is a repudiation of despair. Giving parents never give up hope!

Though otherwise "lively," hope stands quietly with us at funerals. Our tears
are just as wet, but not because of despair. Rather, they are tears of
appreciation evoked by poignant separation. They will change, erelong, to
tears of glorious anticipation. Yet the emptiness is so real and so restless
it initiates a retroactive inventory of what is now so painfully missing,
doing so, however, while forecasting fulness and resplendent reunion!

Humble hope helps us to improve by being sufficiently free of ego to ask,
"Lord, is it I?" ([Matt.
26:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.22?lang=eng#21).) Submissive
hope also readies us to "give away all [our] sins" because we have come to
know Jesus, who alone can take them! ([Alma
22:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/22.18?lang=eng#17).)

Gospel hope keeps us from being muted by being either a naive Pollyanna or a
despairing Cassandra. Voices of warning are meant to be heard, not just
raised.

Being blessed with hope, let us, as disciples, reach out to all who, for
whatever reason, have "moved away from the hope of the gospel" ([Col.
1:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/col/1.23?lang=eng#22)). Let us reach
to lift hands which hang hopelessly down.

Hope beckons all of us to come home where a glow reflects the Light of the
World, whose "brightness and glory defy all description" ([JS--H
1:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.17?lang=eng#16)). Jesus waits
"with open arms to receive" those who finally overcome by faith and hope
([Morm. 6:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/6.17?lang=eng#16)). His
welcome will consist not of a brief, loving pat but, instead, of being
"clasped in the arms of Jesus"! ([Morm.
5:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/morm/5.11?lang=eng#10)).

These Primary children will soon sing about wishing "that [Jesus'] arms had
been thrown around [them]" (_Children's Songbook,_ p. 56). They and we can
"hope, and even know" of such sacred things! ([Alma
28:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/28.12?lang=eng#11).)

Of this I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

