# Premortality, a Glorious Reality

In case you hadn't noticed it, in the last days, discipleship is to be lived
_in crescendo._ Our adversities and extremities will merely bring out the
strong simplicities and the reassuring realities of the gospel. Likewise,
brisk challenges to basic beliefs, and some afflictions, will aid in the
development of even greater convictions concerning these basic beliefs. Though
it will be the key doctrines which are assailed, after the dust of this
dispensation has settled it will be the key doctrines which will have
prevailed.

Early in the Restoration, by translation and revelation, numerous plain and
precious truths appeared in fairly rapid succession. This occurred through
Joseph Smith, the "choice seer." ([2 Ne.
3:6](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.6?lang=eng#5).) As when dinner guests arrive
nearly all at once, Joseph, as host, received, welcomed, and duly noted each
truth. Only later was there time and matured perceptivity to see their
relationships and the antiquity of their credentials.

Among these plain and precious truths was the doctrine of the premortal
existence of mankind. (See [1 Ne. 13:39,
40](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/13.39,40?lang=eng#38).) Early on, Joseph received
much concerning this truth, but just as the revelations concerning it came
incrementally, so did Joseph's understanding.

One of the "plain and precious things" long ago "kept back" or "taken away"
([1 Ne. 13:34, 40](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/13.34,40?lang=eng#33)), this
enormously important truth did not reach the Holy Bible in an abundant degree,
though it is surely there. (See [Jer. 1:5](/scriptures/ot/jer/1.5?lang=eng#4);
[Eph. 1:4-5](/scriptures/nt/eph/1.4-5?lang=eng#3); [2 Tim.
1:9](/scriptures/nt/2-tim/1.9?lang=eng#8).) It was briefly extant after the
original Apostles. Alas, however, just as Paul foresaw, the time soon came
when Church members did not "endure sound doctrine," including this one. (See
[2 Tim. 4:3](/scriptures/nt/2-tim/4.3?lang=eng#2).)

With the later disapprovals of councils, the doctrine of premortal existence
demonstrably was not a doctrine which could have been reestablished by
research. The doctrine does not abuse logic, for "truth is reason," especially
"truth eternal", but is more than logic alone can fully support. (See _Hymns,_
1985, no. 292.) It could only come from restoration by modern revelation. It
was certainly not abroad in the land of America until Joseph Smith's
articulations.

Furthermore, so much had happened in human history to make the restoration of
this key truth necessary. It was needed to confound the false doctrine of a
mankind created _ex nihilo_--out of nothing. (See [2 Ne.
3:12](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/3.12?lang=eng#11).) The "ex nihilo" view, said the
Prophet Joseph "lessens man in my estimation." (_Words of Joseph Smith,_
Andrew F. Ehat and Lyndon W. Cook, comps., Provo: BYU Religious Studies
Center, 1980, p. 359.)

Without this truth, existential lamentations prevail about how man spends his
entire life trying to prove to himself that his existence is not absurd. Even
believers, in Paul's words, if malnourished as to doctrine, can become
"wearied and faint in [their] minds" and surrender to circumstance. (See [Heb.
12:3](/scriptures/nt/heb/12.3?lang=eng#2).)

The reality of premortality responds to puzzlings which suggest we are
strangers here. It is a curative for the yearnings expressed in music and
poetry and literature. There are wonderings such as in these lines:

_Not dulled, nor lulled, supined, secure, replete does Man create;_

_But out of stern challenge, in sharp excitement, with a burning joy;_

_Man is the hunter still,_

_Though his quarry be a hope, a mystery, a dream ..._

_From what immortal desire, what sudden sight of the unknown,_

_Surges that desire?_

_What flint of fact, what kindling light of art or far horizon,_

_Ignites that spark?_

There are ponderings, like this one:

"Everything in our life happens as though we entered upon it with a load of
obligations contracted in a previous existence ... obligations whose sanction is
not of this present life, [which] seem to belong to a different world, founded
on kindness, scruples, sacrifice, a world entirely different from this one, a
world whence we emerge to be born on this earth, before returning thither."
(Marcel Proust, in Gabriel Marcel, _Homo Viator,_ New York: Harper and Row,
1963, p. 8.)

And finally, there are these more familiar lines:

_Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: ..._

_But trailing clouds of glory do we come_

_ From God, who is our home._

So far as we know, brothers and sisters, the restoration of this responsive
doctrine began with the translation by Joseph Smith of a few verses in the
Book of Alma, late 1829 or early 1830. (See [Alma
13:3-5](/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.3-5?lang=eng#2).) By themselves, however,
these verses would not have been adequate. Elder Orson Pratt said: "This same
doctrine [premortal existence] is inculcated in some small degree in the Book
of Mormon. However, I do not think that I should have ever discerned it in
that book had it not been for the new translation of the Scriptures [Bible]."
(_Journal of Discourses,_ 15:249.)

In June of 1830, while rewording some of Genesis under inspiration, the
"choice seer" received revelation now included in the Book of Moses. Of that
special revelatory moment Joseph wrote, "I will say ... that amid all the trials
and tribulations we had to wade through, the Lord, who well knew our infantile
and delicate situation, vouchsafed for us a supply of strength, and granted us
'line upon line of knowledge--here a little and there a little,' of which the
following was a precious morsel." (_History of the Church,_ 1:98.)

Included in that "precious morsel" were words of Moses, further enlarging
Joseph's view, about how God's work involves other planets: "But only an
account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you. For
behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power."
([Moses 1:35](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.35?lang=eng#34).)

The plans and purposes of God were also made more plain: "For behold, this is
my work and my glory--to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of
man." ([Moses 1:39](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.39?lang=eng#38).) Thus, the
vastness of space reflects the vastness of God's love for all of His children.

Other expanding revelations soon followed. In May 1833, the stunning
communication, now known as section 93, declared: "Man was also in the
beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or
made, neither indeed can be. ...

"For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element,
inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy." ([D&amp;C 93:29,
33](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.29,33?lang=eng#28).)

Several years passed, years of apparent ripening and readying, before the
record indicates the Prophet began to communicate this precious doctrine
publicly. In 1839, pondering and contemplating in Liberty Jail, Joseph, by
epistle, urged Church members to better behavior, behavior befitting Church
members who had been "called ... from before the foundation of the world." (_The
Personal Writings of Joseph Smith,_ Dean C. Jessee, comp. Salt Lake City:
Deseret Book Co., 1984, p. 397.)

Joseph also received revelation about what was ordained in "the midst of the
Council of the Eternal God ... before this world was." ([D&amp;C
121:32](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.32?lang=eng#31).) Imprisoned, Joseph
was reassuringly told his own days were known, and his years would "not be
numbered less." ([D&amp;C 122:9](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/122.9?lang=eng#8).)

Joseph's first recorded public speech on this powerful doctrine occurred
shortly after his release from soul-stretching bondage in Missouri. (See _The
Words of Joseph Smith,_ p. 9.) Other speeches followed, capped finally by the
soaring sermon at King Follett's funeral in the spring of 1844.

This declaration to Jeremiah: "Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee;
and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained
thee a prophet unto the nations" ([Jer.
1:5](/scriptures/ot/jer/1.5?lang=eng#4)) was paralleled in the 1842 Book of
Abraham:

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were
organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the
noble and great ones;

"And God ... said: These I will make my rulers; ... and he said unto me: Abraham,
thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." ([Abr.
3:22-23](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.22-23?lang=eng#21).)

The Book of Abraham, in corroborating section 93, used words whose full
measure you and I have scarcely begun to take: "if there be two spirits, ...
notwithstanding one is more intelligent than the other, [they] have no
beginning; they existed before, they shall have no end ... for they are ...
eternal." ([Abr. 3:18](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.18?lang=eng#17).)

Conjoined with the truths of the resplendent Restoration, biblical references
to this precious doctrine took on enhanced meaning and gave increased
illumination. (See [John 9:2](/scriptures/nt/john/9.2?lang=eng#1); see also
[Rom. 8:29](/scriptures/nt/rom/8.29?lang=eng#28); [Eph.
1:4](/scriptures/nt/eph/1.4?lang=eng#3); [Jude
1:6](/scriptures/nt/jude/1.6?lang=eng#5); [Job
38:7](/scriptures/ot/job/38.7?lang=eng#6).)

Indeed, a very major stumbling block was thus removed by revelation. Just as
prophesied, Jesus also manifested Himself "in word" in the latter days. (See
[1 Ne. 14:1](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/14.1?lang=eng#0).)

In Moses' day, a generous God let his doctrine "drop as the rain." ([Deut.
32:2](/scriptures/ot/deut/32.2?lang=eng#1).) In Eli's day, however, "there was
no open vision." ([1 Sam. 3:1](/scriptures/ot/1-sam/3.1?lang=eng#0).) In
Joseph Smith's day, there was a "pouring down" of "knowledge from heaven"
([D&amp;C 121:33](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.33?lang=eng#32)), a cascade
of "plain and precious" truths, including the pivotal doctrine of the
premortal existence of man. (See [1 Ne.
13:39-40](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/13.39-40?lang=eng#38).)

A few ancient writings, unavailable to Joseph Smith or anyone else at that
time, have since appeared. Apocryphal writings may contain truths to be
discerned, for "whoso is enlightened by the Spirit shall obtain benefit
therefrom." ([D&amp;C 91:5](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/91.5?lang=eng#4).)
This is an example from the Nag Hammadi Library. In the Apocryphon of James,
Jesus reportedly told an afflicted Peter and James, "If you consider how long
the world existed before you, and how long it will exist after you, you will
find that your life is one single day and your sufferings one single hour"
("The Apocryphon of James," in _The Nag Hammadi Library in English,_ ed. James
M. Robinson, San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1978, p. 31.)

How like what the Lord told suffering Joseph in jail: "My son, ... thine
adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment." ([D&amp;C
121:7](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.7?lang=eng#6).)

One's life, therefore, is brevity compared to eternity--like being dropped off
by a parent for a day at school. But what a day!

Even now, however, many still "stumble at the word." ([1 Pet.
2:8](/scriptures/nt/1-pet/2.8?lang=eng#7).) Yet, as Paul prescribed, if we
blend "longsuffering and doctrine" ([2 Tim.
4:2](/scriptures/nt/2-tim/4.2?lang=eng#1)), some who "murmur" about the human
predicament "shall learn doctrine" ([Isa.
29:24](/scriptures/ot/isa/29.24?lang=eng#23); [2 Ne.
27:35](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/27.35?lang=eng#34)), by letting this doctrine,
"as the dew from heav'n distilling," revive them, "thus fulfilling What thy
providence intends." (_Hymns,_ 1985, no. 149.)

Meanwhile, the adversary relentlessly uses the absence or disbelief of this
doctrine to shrink man's perspective. One-dimensional man with only a one-
dimensional view of the world will surely focus upon the cares of the world,
yielding to the things of the moment.

Latter-day Saints do not, of course, ask others to accept this or any gospel
truth against their wills. We ask only for tolerance, and expect such
doctrines to be scrutinized and even criticized by others. We reserve the same
freedom regarding others' beliefs--but all in mutual good will, however.

Premortality is not a relaxing doctrine. For each of us, there are choices to
be made, incessant and difficult chores to be done, ironies and adversities to
be experienced, time to be well spent, talents and gifts to be well employed.
Just because we were chosen "there and then," surely does not mean we can be
indifferent "here and now." Whether foreordination for men, or foredesignation
for women, those called and prepared must also prove "chosen, and faithful."
(See [Rev. 17:14](/scriptures/nt/rev/17.14?lang=eng#13); [D&amp;C
121:34-36](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.34-36?lang=eng#33).)

In fact, adequacy in the first estate may merely have ensured a stern, second
estate with more duties and no immunities! Additional tutoring and suffering
appears to be the pattern for the Lord's most apt pupils. (See [Mosiah
3:19](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18); [1 Pet.
4:19](/scriptures/nt/1-pet/4.19?lang=eng#18).) Our existence, therefore, is a
continuum matched by God's stretching curriculum.

This doctrine brings unarguable identity but also severe accountability to our
lives. It uniquely underscores the actuality of the Fatherhood of God and the
brotherhood of man.

It also reminds us that we do not have all of the data. There are many times
when we must withhold judgment and trust God, even in the midst of "all these
things." Only with the help of this doctrine can we begin to understand things
as they really were, are, and will become. (See [Jacob
4:13](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.13?lang=eng#12); [D&amp;C 93:24](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/93.24?lang=eng#23).)

Agreeing to enter this second estate, therefore, was like agreeing in advance
to anesthetic--the anesthetic of forgetfulness. Doctors do not de-anesthetize
a patient, in the midst of what was previously authorized, to ask him, again,
if it should be continued. We agreed to come here and to undergo certain
experiences under certain conditions.

Elder Orson Hyde said, "We have forgotten! ... But our forgetfulness cannot
alter the facts." (_Journal of Discourses,_ 7:315.) Yet, on occasions, there
are inklings. President Joseph F. Smith observed how "we often catch a spark
from the awakened memories of the immortal soul, which lights up our whole
being as with the glory of our former home." (_Gospel Doctrine,_ 5th ed., Salt
Lake City: Deseret Book, 1939, p. 14.)

There can be sudden surges of _deja vu._ A flash from the mirror of memory can
beckon us forward to that far pavilion, filled with "everlasting splendours"
and resurrected beings. C. S. Lewis wrote, "We cannot mingle with the
splendours we see. But all the leaves of the New Testament are rustling with
the rumour that it will not always be so." (_C. S. Lewis at the Breakfast
Table and Other Reminiscences,_ ed. James T. Como, New York: Collier Books,
1985, p. 34.) Thanks to the Prophet Joseph Smith, hundreds more leaves of
scripture are rustling, rustling resoundingly for all who have ears to hear.

Thus, when we now say "I know," that realization is rediscovery; we are
actually saying "I know--again!"

From long experience, His sheep know His voice and His doctrine. Meanwhile,
the soul weaving in process for such a long time goes on as described in these
anonymous lines:

_My life is but a weaving_

_Between my Lord and me;_

_I cannot choose the colors_

_He worketh steadily._

_Ofttimes He weaveth sorrow_

_And I in foolish pride,_

_Forget that He seeth the upper,_

_And I the under side._

_Not till the loom is silent_

_And the shuttles cease to fly,_

_Shall God unroll the canvas_

_And explain the reason why._

_The dark threads are as needful_

_In the Weaver's skillful hand,_

_As the threads of gold and silver_

_In the pattern He has planned._

May we so believe, so trust, so submit, and so behave, I pray in the name of
Him who is the "Lord of the narrow gate and the needle's eye" (C. S. Lewis,
_At the Breakfast Table,_ p. xxv), even Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

