# “From the Beginning”

Teaching about history's major apostasies has long been one of the restored
gospel's "givens," but it is not always given much attention. My aim,
therefore, is internal instruction, not external persuasion, since we fully
understand that certain of our beliefs are not shared by others and vice
versa. But goodwill can still prevail. In fact, with you, brothers and
sisters, I rejoice in the good works and the voices of faith of many in other
religions. For instance, recent papal pronouncements on chastity are both
appropriate and courageous, and I applaud them. So many honorable individuals
in the world do so much without what we, as members, call gospel fulness,
while some of us, unfortunately, do so little with so much!

We believe Adam and Eve were this planet's first humans and first Christians.

"And thus the Gospel began to be preached, _from the beginning,_ being
declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own
voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost.

"And thus all things were confirmed unto Adam, by an holy ordinance" ([Moses
5:58-59](/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.58-59?lang=eng#57); emphasis added).

Hence, brothers and sisters, a particular pattern of divine instruction
followed, early on, just as occurred in the later Restoration. "Therefore
[God] sent angels to converse with them, who caused men to behold of his
glory.

"And they began from that time forth to call on his name; therefore God
conversed with men, and made known unto them the plan of redemption" ([Alma
12:29-30](/scriptures/bofm/alma/12.29-30?lang=eng#28); see also [Moses
5:58-59](/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.58-59?lang=eng#57)).

However, this initial fulness was soon lost. Resulting fragmentation,
diffusion, and distortion contributed to a wide variety of world religions--
Christian and non-Christian.

President Joseph F. Smith observed that amid this diffusion certain laws and
rites were "carried by the posterity of Adam into all lands, and continued
with them, more or less pure, to the flood, and through Noah, ... to those who
succeeded him, spreading out into all nations and countries. ... What wonder,
then, that we should find relics of Christianity, so to speak, among ... nations
who know not Christ, and whose histories date back ... beyond the flood,
independent of and apart from the records of the Bible" (in _Journal of
Discourses,_ 15:325; see also [Alma
29:8](/scriptures/bofm/alma/29.8?lang=eng#7)).

Earlier fulness was followed by periodic "famine[s]" of "hearing the words of
the Lord" ([Amos 8:11](/scriptures/ot/amos/8.11?lang=eng#10)). Ancient
Israel's fallings away were cited by Jehovah, including their changing
ordinances, breaking covenants, and rebellion (see [Isa.
24:5](/scriptures/ot/isa/24.5?lang=eng#4); [Ezek.
2:3](/scriptures/ot/ezek/2.3?lang=eng#2)).

A major falling away occurred after the deaths of the Apostles, "the sowers of
the seed" ([D&amp;C 86:2](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/86.2?lang=eng#1); see
also [Jude 1:17](/scriptures/nt/jude/1.17?lang=eng#16); [Mosiah
26:1](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/26.1?lang=eng#0)).

New Testament epistles clearly indicate that serious and widespread apostasy--
not just sporadic dissent--began soon. James decried "wars and fightings
among" the Church ([James 4:1](/scriptures/nt/james/4.1?lang=eng#0)). Paul
lamented "divisions" in the Church and how "grievous wolves" would not spare
"the flock" ([1 Cor. 11:18](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/11.18?lang=eng#17); [Acts
20:29-31](/scriptures/nt/acts/20.29-31?lang=eng#28)). He knew an apostasy was
coming and wrote to the Thessalonians that Jesus' second coming would not
occur "except there come a falling away first," further advising that
"iniquity doth already work" ([2 Thes. 2:3,
7](/scriptures/nt/2-thes/2.3,7?lang=eng#2)).

Near the end, Paul acknowledged how very extensive the falling away was: "All
they which are in Asia be turned away from me" ([2 Tim.
1:15](/scriptures/nt/2-tim/1.15?lang=eng#14)).

Paul was even wrongly accused of teaching "Let us do evil, that good may come"
([Rom. 3:8](/scriptures/nt/rom/3.8?lang=eng#7)). Slandering Paul may have
reflected some Nicolaitan nonsense by suggesting that since God provides a way
for us to be saved from our sins, we should sin in order to allow Him to do
that great good! No wonder the Lord in the book of Revelation denounced the
pernicious doctrines and deeds of the Nicolaitans (see [Rev. 2:6,
15](/scriptures/nt/rev/2.6,15?lang=eng#5); LDS Bible Dictionary,
"Nicolaitans").

Widespread fornication and idolatry brought apostolic alarm (see [1 Cor.
5:9](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/5.9?lang=eng#8); [Eph.
5:3](/scriptures/nt/eph/5.3?lang=eng#2); [Jude
1:7](/scriptures/nt/jude/1.7?lang=eng#6)). John and Paul both bemoaned the
rise of false Apostles (see [2 Cor.
11:13](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/11.13?lang=eng#12); [Rev.
2:2](/scriptures/nt/rev/2.2?lang=eng#1)). The Church was clearly under siege.
Some not only fell away but then openly opposed. In one circumstance, Paul
stood alone and lamented that "all men forsook me" ([2 Tim.
4:16](/scriptures/nt/2-tim/4.16?lang=eng#15)). He also decried those who
"subvert[ed] whole houses" ([Titus
1:11](/scriptures/nt/titus/1.11?lang=eng#10)).

Some local leaders rebelled, as when one, who loved his preeminence, refused
to receive the brethren (see [3 Jn.
1:9-10](/scriptures/nt/3-jn/1.9-10?lang=eng#8)).

No wonder President Brigham Young observed: "It is said the Priesthood was
taken from the Church, but it is not so, the Church went from the Priesthood"
(in _Journal of Discourses,_ 12:69).

The concerns expressed by Peter, John, Paul, and James over the falling away
were not paranoia but prophetic warnings about "Apostasia."

Another force was at work too: the cultural Hellenizing of Christianity. Wrote
Will Durant in _The Story of Civilization,_ "The Greek language, having
reigned for centuries over philosophy, became the vehicle of Christian
literature and ritual" (_part 3, Caesar and Christ,_ New York: Simon and
Schuster, 1944, p. 595). The errant grooves earlier used in defining deity
were already there and were so easy to slide into (see Robert M. Grant, _Gods
and the One God,_ Philadelphia: Westminster Press, pp. 75-81, 152-58).

Another scholar concluded: "It was impossible for Greeks, ... with an education
which penetrated their whole nature, to receive or to retain Christianity in
its primitive simplicity" (Edwin Hatch, _The Influence of Greek Ideas on
Christianity,_ Gloucester, Mass: Peter Smith, reprinted 1970, p. 49).

Paul's experience in Athens showed the mind-set of Greek philosophy (see [Acts
17](/scriptures/nt/acts/17?lang=eng)). His intellectually curious audience
asked about "this new doctrine, ... for thou bringest ... strange things to our
ears" ([Acts 17:19-20](/scriptures/nt/acts/17.19-20?lang=eng#18)). Then when
Paul spoke of the living God and the Resurrection, he was "mocked" ([Acts
17:32](/scriptures/nt/acts/17.32?lang=eng#31)) for seeming to set "forth ...
strange gods" ([Acts 17:18](/scriptures/nt/acts/17.18?lang=eng#17); see also
[Acts 17:29](/scriptures/nt/acts/17.29?lang=eng#28)).

Some defined matter as intrinsically evil, an idea representing both Greek and
Oriental thought (see E. R. Dodds, _Pagan and Christian in an Age of Anxiety,_
New York: W. W. Norton and Co., 1965, p. 14). Hence, if the body constitutes a
"dark jail" from which we should seek to escape, why desire a resurrection?
(see ibid., p. 30, note 1). This view contrasts so sharply with modern
revelation, which declares that only when the resurrected body and the
individual spirit are inseparably connected can there be a "fulness of joy"
([D&amp;C 93:33](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.33?lang=eng#32); see also
[D&amp;C 88:15-16](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.15-16?lang=eng#14); [D&amp;C
138:17](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.17?lang=eng#16)). Besides, God used
matter to create this earth so it could "be inhabited," after which He "saw
every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good"--not evil! ([Isa.
45:18](/scriptures/ot/isa/45.18?lang=eng#17); [Gen.
1:31](/scriptures/ot/gen/1.31?lang=eng#30)).

Furthermore, some questioned worshipping a God who suffers. One modern scholar
observed that "the human sufferings of Jesus ... were felt as an embarrassment
in the face of pagan criticism" (Dodds, p. 119). Thus many Greeks considered
Christ and what He stood for as "foolishness" ([1 Cor.
1:23](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/1.23?lang=eng#22)).

Many fell away from the gospel and its "plain and precious" truths ([1 Ne.
13:40](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/13.40?lang=eng#39)). It was too simple. They
preferred "looking beyond the mark" and searching for things "they could not
understand" ([Jacob 4:14](/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.14?lang=eng#13)).

The Apostle John denounced anti-Christs who taught that Jesus hadn't really
come "in the flesh" ([1 Jn. 4:3](/scriptures/nt/1-jn/4.3?lang=eng#2)),
implying that Jesus' bodily appearance was an illusion designed to accommodate
mortal incapacities (see [John 1:1-3,
14](/scriptures/nt/john/1.1-3,14?lang=eng#0)).

Another hellenistic form of "looking beyond the mark" was interpreting clear,
historical events as allegorical. These early denials of Jesus' historicity
are replicated in our day.

Reason, the Greek philosophical tradition, dominated, then supplanted,
reliance on revelation, an outcome probably hastened by well-intentioned
Christians wishing to bring their beliefs into the mainstream of contemporary
culture.

Historian Will Durant also wrote: "Christianity did not destroy paganism; it
adopted it. The Greek mind, dying, came to a transmigrated life" (_Caesar and
Christ,_ p. 595).

Unfortunately, too many Church members, in Paul's phrase, wearied and fainted
"in [their] minds" ([Heb. 12:3](/scriptures/nt/heb/12.3?lang=eng#2)).

By the middle of the second century, things had changed dramatically. Another
scholar wrote of how the theological furniture had been significantly
rearranged in ways which reflected a hellenized Christianity (see Stephen
Robinson, _Ensign,_ Jan. 1988, p. 39).

Peter, who witnessed firsthand what was happening, spoke hopefully of a
distant day, the long-awaited "times of restitution of all things, which God
hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began"
([Acts 3:21](/scriptures/nt/acts/3.21?lang=eng#20)). _Restitution_ means
_restoration._

Paul, too, wrote of the "dispensation of the fulness of times" ([Rom.
11:25](/scriptures/nt/rom/11.25?lang=eng#24); [Eph.
1:10](/scriptures/nt/eph/1.10?lang=eng#9)), a particular time of times, which
would "gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven,
and which are on earth" ([Eph. 1:10](/scriptures/nt/eph/1.10?lang=eng#9); see
also [Rom. 11:25](/scriptures/nt/rom/11.25?lang=eng#24)). Everything would be
restored, including the fulness which was with Adam in the beginning (see
[D&amp;C 128:21](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.21?lang=eng#20); [Abr.
1:3](/scriptures/pgp/abr/1.3?lang=eng#2)). However, there would never again be
a collective falling away, only individual apostasy (see [Dan.
2:44](/scriptures/ot/dan/2.44?lang=eng#43); [D&amp;C 65:2](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/65.2?lang=eng#1)).

The glorious things restored in the nineteenth century included the calling of
a prophet, Joseph Smith, who heard God's own voice, received angelic
revelations and also the holy apostleship and priesthood keys. He also
received additional scripture, which commenced a continuing canon and included
a restored fulness concerning the nature of God, the Father, and Christ, the
Son, and the Atonement. After all, first things first! The Savior, Himself,
declared, "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true
God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" ([John
17:3](/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2)).

Instructed by further revelation, Joseph Smith taught, "If men do not
comprehend the character of God, they do not comprehend themselves"
(_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ sel. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt
Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 343). Likewise, brothers and sisters, if
we do not comprehend God's purposes, we will not comprehend the purposes of
life! In God's plan of salvation, He does nothing save it be for the benefit
of His children in the world; man is at the center of His purposes (see
[Mosiah 8:18](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/8.18?lang=eng#17); [D&amp;C
46:26](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/46.26?lang=eng#25); see also [Moses
1:39](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.39?lang=eng#38)). Likewise restored were
doctrines, ordinances, and covenants associated with the holy temple.
Revelation thus replaced the long and inordinate reliance on reason. Yet,
regarding reason, the invitation of the Lord of the Restoration is "Wherefore,
hearken and I will reason with you" ([D&amp;C 45:15](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/45.15?lang=eng#14)). Such hearkening enhances and stretches the
mind, admitting one to the sun-drenched uplands of revealed understanding.
"Come now, and let us reason together" is an invitation to divine tutoring,
but only the meek are wise enough to accept it ([Isa.
1:18](/scriptures/ot/isa/1.18?lang=eng#17); see also [2 Ne.
32:7](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.7?lang=eng#6)).

Even more fulness is to come, which will "reveal all things from the
foundation of the world unto the end thereof" ([2 Ne.
27:10](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/27.10?lang=eng#9); see also [D&amp;C
121:28-32](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.28-32?lang=eng#27)).

The "glad tidings" of the Restoration came that faith "might increase in the
earth" ([D&amp;C 1:21](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.21?lang=eng#20)), a
refreshing remedy for what Matthew Arnold described:

_The sea of faith_

_Was once, too, at the full, ... _

_But now I only hear_

_Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar,_

_Retreating, to the breath_

_Of the nightwind down the vast edges drear_

_And naked shingles of the world._

While we rightly rejoice over the Restoration, we should also learn from the
lessons of the past by honoring God's patterns of revelation, including the
gift of the Holy Ghost by which needed anchoring and personal verification can
come.

Let us also honor today's "sowers of the seed," the Apostles. Let us be wary
about accommodating revealed theology to conventional wisdom. Let us lovingly
nourish ourselves, our families, and Church flocks spiritually, so that we are
not "wearied and faint in [our] minds" ([Heb.
12:3](/scriptures/nt/heb/12.3?lang=eng#2)).

Self-siftings do occur. President George Q. Cannon observed in 1875:

"I am thankful that God allows those who do not keep his commandments to fall
away, so that his Church may be cleansed, and, in this respect, this Church is
different from any other that is upon the earth. ... The sifting or weeding
process has been going on from the commencement of this Church until the
present time" (in _Journal of Discourses,_ 18:84).

In the days ahead, "all things shall be in commotion" ([D&amp;C
88:91](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.91?lang=eng#90)). We may even have
nostalgia for past days of obscurity (see [D&amp;C 1:30](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/1.30?lang=eng#29)). Amid a drumroll of developments, complex and
converging world conditions will bring both trials and opportunities. Faithful
Church members, however, will sense the crescendo in it all, even while being
carried forward on the crest of breathtaking circumstances.

He whose name this church bears has promised that He will be in our midst (see
[D&amp;C 6:32](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/6.32?lang=eng#31)), lead us along
(see [D&amp;C 78:18](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/78.18?lang=eng#17)), go
before us (see [D&amp;C 49:27](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/49.27?lang=eng#26);
[D&amp;C 84:88](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.88?lang=eng#87)), and even
fight our battles (see [D&amp;C 98:37](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/98.37?lang=eng#36)). He has further counseled, "Be not afraid of
your enemies, for I have decreed in my heart ... that I will prove you in all
things, whether you will abide in my covenant, even unto death, that you may
be found worthy" ([D&amp;C 98:14](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/98.14?lang=eng#13)). So let us have patience and faith as did
Lehi who saw pointing fingers of scorn directed at those who grasped the iron
rod, which rod, ironically, some of those same fingers once grasped (see [1
Ne. 8:27, 33](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/8.27,33?lang=eng#26)). But, said Lehi, "we
heeded them not." So it should be with us! Brothers and sisters, being pointed
in the right direction, we do not need to worry about being pointed at!

As Latter-day Saints, far from having a doctrinal famine, we do not yet fully
sense the soaring comprehensiveness of the Restoration. Provincially, we focus
on our own little sectors and their little pieces of gospel tile--without
seeing the breathtaking mosaic of the Restoration! For instance, revealed
truths tell of the stunning vastness of God's work with its plurality of
"worlds without number"! ([Moses
1:33](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.33?lang=eng#32); see also [D&amp;C
76:24](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.24?lang=eng#23)). Yet, there is also
incredible individualization as in the ordinances and promises of the holy
temple.

We can best express our gratitude for this glorious fulness by developing a
more full love for all of humankind. And why not, for the Restoration tells us
who our neighbors really are! Let our gratitude likewise be expressed by
striving to become, attribute by attribute, more and more as Jesus is (see [3
Ne. 27:27](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26)). By so living, ours will
not then be a mere appreciation of Jesus, nor a modest admiration of Him.
Rather, ours will be an adoration of Jesus expressed by our emulation of Him!

I so testify in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen!

## References

