# He Heals the Heavy Laden

The Savior said, "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I
will give you rest" ([Matthew 11:28](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28?lang=eng#27)).

Many carry heavy burdens. Some have lost a loved one to death or care for one
who is disabled. Some have been wounded by divorce. Others yearn for an
eternal marriage. Some are caught in the grip of addictive substances or
practices like alcohol, tobacco, drugs, or pornography. Others have crippling
physical or mental impairments. Some are challenged by same-gender attraction.
Some have terrible feelings of depression or inadequacy. In one way or
another, many are heavy laden.

To each of us our Savior gives this loving invitation:

"Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest.

"Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and
ye shall find rest unto your souls.

"For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light" ([Matthew
11:28-30](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28-30?lang=eng#27)).

The scriptures contain many accounts of the Savior's healing the heavy laden.
He caused the blind to see; the deaf to hear; the palsied, withered, or maimed
to be restored; lepers to be cleansed; and unclean spirits to be cast out.
Often we read that the person healed of these physical ailments was "made
whole" (see [Matthew 14:36](/scriptures/nt/matt/14.36?lang=eng#35);
[15:28](/scriptures/nt/matt/15.28?lang=eng#27); [Mark
6:56](/scriptures/nt/mark/6.56?lang=eng#55);
[10:52](/scriptures/nt/mark/10.52?lang=eng#51); [Luke
17:19](/scriptures/nt/luke/17.19?lang=eng#18); [John
5:9](/scriptures/nt/john/5.9?lang=eng#8)).

Jesus healed many from physical diseases, but He did not withhold healing from
those who sought to be "made whole" from other ailments. Matthew writes that
He healed every sickness and every disease among the people (see [Matthew
4:23](/scriptures/nt/matt/4.23?lang=eng#22);
[9:35](/scriptures/nt/matt/9.35?lang=eng#34)). Great multitudes followed Him,
and He "healed them all" ([Matthew
12:15](/scriptures/nt/matt/12.15?lang=eng#14)). Surely these healings included
those whose sicknesses were emotional, mental, or spiritual. He healed them
all.

In His early sermon in the synagogue, Jesus read aloud from this prophecy of
Isaiah: "He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me
to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and
recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised"
([Luke 4:18](/scriptures/nt/luke/4.18?lang=eng#17)). As Jesus declared that He
was come to fulfill that prophecy, He expressly affirmed that He would heal
those with physical ailments and He would also deliver the captive, liberate
the bruised, and heal the brokenhearted.

The Gospel of Luke contains many examples of that ministry. It tells of the
time when "great multitudes came together to hear [Jesus], and to be healed by
him of their infirmities" ([Luke 5:15](/scriptures/nt/luke/5.15?lang=eng#14)).
On other occasions it records that Jesus "cured many of their infirmities"
([Luke 7:21](/scriptures/nt/luke/7.21?lang=eng#20)) and that He "healed them
that had need of healing" ([Luke 9:11](/scriptures/nt/luke/9.11?lang=eng#10)).
It also describes how a great multitude of people out of Judea and Jerusalem
and the seacoast of Sidon came down to the plain "to hear him, and to be
healed" ([Luke 6:17](/scriptures/nt/luke/6.17?lang=eng#16)).

When the Savior appeared to the righteous in the New World, He called for
persons to come forward who were lame or blind or had other physical ailments.
He extended the same invitation to those "that are afflicted in any manner"
([3 Nephi 17:7](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17.7?lang=eng#6)). "Bring them hither,"
He said, "and I will heal them" ([v.
7](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17.7?lang=eng#6)). The Book of Mormon tells how the
multitude brought forward "all them that were afflicted in any manner" ([v.
9](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17.9?lang=eng#8)). This must have included persons
with every kind of physical or emotional or mental affliction, and the
scripture testifies that Jesus "did heal them every one" ([v.
9](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17.9?lang=eng#8)).

The Savior teaches that we will have tribulation in the world, but we should
"be of good cheer" because He has "overcome the world" ([John
16:33](/scriptures/nt/john/16.33?lang=eng#32)). His Atonement reaches and is
powerful enough not only to pay the price for sin but also to heal every
mortal affliction. The Book of Mormon teaches that "He shall go forth,
suffering pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind; and this that
the word might be fulfilled which saith he will take upon him the pains and
the sicknesses of his people" ([Alma
7:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11?lang=eng#10); see also [2 Nephi
9:21](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.21?lang=eng#20)).

He knows of our anguish, and He is there for us. Like the good Samaritan in
His parable, when He finds us wounded at the wayside, He binds up our wounds
and cares for us (see [Luke 10:34](/scriptures/nt/luke/10.34?lang=eng#33)).
Brothers and sisters, the healing power of His Atonement is for you, for us,
for all.

His all-encompassing healing power is sought in the prayerful words of our
hymn "Master, the Tempest Is Raging":

_Master, with anguish of spirit_

_I bow in my grief today._

_The depths of my sad heart are troubled._

_Oh, waken and save, I pray!_

_Torrents of sin and of anguish_

_Sweep o'er my sinking soul,_

_And I perish! I perish! dear Master._

_Oh, hasten and take control!_

We can be healed through the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Jesus
gave His Apostles power "to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of
disease" ([Matthew 10:1](/scriptures/nt/matt/10.1?lang=eng#0); see also [Mark
3:15](/scriptures/nt/mark/3.15?lang=eng#14); [Luke
9:1-2](/scriptures/nt/luke/9.1-2?lang=eng#0)), and they went forth "preaching
the gospel, and healing every where" ([Luke
9:6](/scriptures/nt/luke/9.6?lang=eng#5); see also [Mark
6:13](/scriptures/nt/mark/6.13?lang=eng#12); [Acts
5:16](/scriptures/nt/acts/5.16?lang=eng#15)). The Seventy were also sent forth
with power and direction to heal the sick (see [Luke
10:9](/scriptures/nt/luke/10.9?lang=eng#8); [Acts
8:6-7](/scriptures/nt/acts/8.6-7?lang=eng#5)).

Although the Savior could heal all whom He would heal, this is not true of
those who hold His priesthood authority. Mortal exercises of that authority
are limited by the will of Him whose priesthood it is. Consequently, we are
told that some whom the elders bless are not healed because they are
"appointed unto death" ([D&amp;C 42:48](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/42.48?lang=eng#47)). Similarly, when the Apostle Paul sought to
be healed from the "thorn in the flesh" that buffeted him ([2 Corinthians
12:7](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/12.7?lang=eng#6)), the Lord declined to heal him.
Paul later wrote that the Lord explained, "My grace is sufficient for thee:
for my strength is made perfect in weakness" ([v.
9](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/12.9?lang=eng#8)). Paul obediently responded that he
would "rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon
me ... for when I am weak, then am I strong" ([vv.
9-10](/scriptures/nt/2-cor/12.9-10?lang=eng#8)).

Healing blessings come in many ways, each suited to our individual needs, as
known to Him who loves us best. Sometimes a "healing" cures our illness or
lifts our burden. But sometimes we are "healed" by being given strength or
understanding or patience to bear the burdens placed upon us.

The people who followed Alma were in bondage to wicked oppressors. When they
prayed for relief, the Lord told them He would deliver them eventually, but in
the meantime He would ease their burdens "that even you cannot feel them upon
your backs, even while you are in bondage; and this will I do that ye may
stand as witnesses ... that I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their
afflictions" ([Mosiah 24:14](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/24.14?lang=eng#13)). In
that case the people did not have their burdens removed, but the Lord
strengthened them so that "they could bear up their burdens with ease, and
they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the Lord" ([v.
15](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/24.15?lang=eng#14)).

This same promise and effect applies to you mothers who are widowed or
divorced, to you singles who are lonely, to you caregivers who are burdened,
to you persons who are addicted, and to all of us whatever our burden. "Come
unto Christ," the prophet says, "and be perfected in him" ([Moroni
10:32](/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.32?lang=eng#31)).

At times we may despair that our burdens are too great. When it seems that a
tempest is raging in our lives, we may feel abandoned and cry out like the
disciples in the storm, "Master, carest thou not that we perish?" ([Mark
4:38](/scriptures/nt/mark/4.38?lang=eng#37)). At such times we should remember
His reply: "Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?" ([v.
40](/scriptures/nt/mark/4.40?lang=eng#39)).

The healing power of the Lord Jesus Christ--whether it removes our burdens or
strengthens us to endure and live with them like the Apostle Paul--is
available for every affliction in mortality.

After I gave a general conference talk on the evils of pornography (see
"Pornography," _Liahona_ and _Ensign,_ May 2005, 87-90), I received many
letters from persons burdened with this addiction. Some of these letters were
from men who had overcome pornography. One man wrote:

"There are several lessons I've gleaned from my experience coming out of the
darkness of a sin that so thoroughly dominates the lives of the people it
ensnares: (1) This is a major problem that is unbelievably difficult to
overcome. ... (2) The most important source of support and strength in the
repentance process is the Savior. ... (3) Intense, daily scripture study,
regular temple worship, and serious, contemplative participation in the
ordinance of the sacrament are all indispensable parts of a true repentance
process. This, I assume, is because all of these activities serve to deepen
and strengthen one's relationship with the Savior, one's understanding of His
atoning sacrifice, and one's faith in His healing power" (letter dated Oct.
24, 2005).

"Come unto me," the Savior said, "and ye shall find rest unto your souls"
([Matthew 11:28-29](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28-29?lang=eng#27)). That heavy-
laden man turned to the Savior, and so can each of us.

A woman whose marriage was threatened by her husband's addiction to
pornography wrote how she stood beside him for five pain-filled years until,
as she said, "through the gift of our precious Savior's glorious Atonement and
what He taught me about forgiveness, [my husband] finally is free--and so am
I." As one who needed no cleansing from sin, but only sought a loved one's
deliverance from captivity, she wrote this advice:

"Commune with the Lord. ... He is your best friend! He knows your pain because
He has felt it for you already. He is ready to carry that burden. Trust Him
enough to place it at His feet and allow Him to carry it for you. Then you can
have your anguish replaced with His peace, in the very depths of your soul"
(letter dated Apr. 18, 2005).

A man wrote a General Authority about how the power of the Atonement helped
him with his problem of same-gender attraction. He had been excommunicated for
serious transgressions that violated his temple covenants and his
responsibilities to his children. He had to choose whether to attempt to live
the gospel or whether to continue a course contrary to its teachings.

"I knew it would be difficult," he wrote, "but I didn't realize what I would
have to go through." His letter describes the emptiness and loneliness and the
incredible pain he experienced from deep within his soul as he sought to
return. He prayed mightily for forgiveness, sometimes for hours at a time. He
was sustained by reading the scriptures, by the companionship of a loving
bishop, and by priesthood blessings. But what finally made the difference was
the help of the Savior. He explained:

"It [was] only through Him and His Atonement. ... I now feel an overwhelming
gratitude. My pains have been almost more than I could bear at times, and yet
they were so small compared to what He suffered. Where there once was darkness
in my life, there is now love and gratitude."

He continues: "Some profess that change is possible and therapy is the only
answer. They are very learned on the subject and have so much to offer those
who struggle ..., but I worry that they forget to involve Heavenly Father in the
process. If change is to happen, it will happen according to the will of God.
I also worry that many people focus on the causes of [same-gender attraction].
... There is no need to determine why I have [this challenge]. I don't know if I
was born with it, or if environmental factors contributed to it. The fact of
the matter is that I have this struggle in my life and what I do with it from
this point forward is what matters" (letter dated Mar. 25, 2006).

The persons who wrote these letters know that the Atonement of Jesus Christ
and the healing it offers do much more than provide the opportunity for
repentance from sins. The Atonement also gives us the strength to endure
"pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind," because our Savior also
took upon Him "the pains and the sicknesses of his people" ([Alma
7:11](/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.11?lang=eng#10)). Brothers and sisters, if your
faith and prayers and the power of the priesthood do not heal you from an
affliction, the power of the Atonement will surely give you the strength to
bear the burden.

"Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden," the Savior said, "and
I will give you rest ... unto your souls" ([Matthew
11:28-29](/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28-29?lang=eng#27)).

As we struggle with the challenges of mortality, I pray for each of us, as the
prophet Mormon prayed for his son, Moroni: "May Christ lift thee up, and may
his sufferings and death, ... and his mercy and long-suffering, and the hope of
his glory and of eternal life, rest in your mind forever" ([Moroni
9:25](/scriptures/bofm/moro/9.25?lang=eng#24)).

I testify of Jesus Christ, our Savior, who invites us all to come unto Him and
be perfected in Him. He will bind up our wounds and He will heal the heavy
laden. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

