# Self-Mastery

If our faith be united in prayer that we may be edified together, I should
like to speak about our quest for self-mastery. In so doing, I would converse
as a loving father counseling one of my own children.

Before you can master yourself, my precious one, you need to know who you are.
You consist of two parts--your physical body, and your spirit which lives
within your body. You may have heard the expression "mind over matter." That's
what I would like to talk about--but phrase it a little differently: "spirit
over body." That is self-mastery.

When you arrived as a newborn baby, your little body was master. You had what
I call the "I-want-what-I-want-when-I-want-it" philosophy. No amount of
discussion could postpone your impatient demands when you wanted to be fed--
and _now!_ Like all parents, we anxiously anticipated the first smile, a word,
a glimpse at the potential of the spirit within your tiny body. Is there a
mother who has not cradled her baby as your sweet mother did, in wistful
wonder of the destiny of her dear little one? Even Mary, the mother of Jesus,
might have asked such questions:

_Baby, lyin' in a manger, slumberin' so sweetly,_

_What you goin' to be?_

_Baby, all the world is watchin', all the world awaits to see._

_What will you be?_

_Baby, sleepin' in a stable, underneath the heaven,_

_What you goin' to say? ... _

_Baby, lyin' in a manger,_

_Will you save the world one day?_

Through those early years, we parents are properly concerned with physical
needs of our children, such as food, clothing, and shelter.

But as you grow older, our concerns shift more toward your spiritual growth,
in order that you might achieve your full potential. "For the natural man is
an enemy to God, and has been from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and
ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit ... and becometh a
saint." ([Mosiah 3:19](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18).)

That requires self-mastery. Remember, "The spirit and the body are the soul of
man" ([D&amp;C 88:15](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.15?lang=eng#14).) Both
are of great importance. Your physical body is a magnificent creation of God.
It is his temple as well as yours, and must be treated with reverence.
Scripture declares: "Ye are the temple of God. ... If any man defile [it], him
shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are." ([1
Cor. 3:16-17](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/3.16-17?lang=eng#15).)

Remarkable as your body is, its prime purpose is even of greater importance--
to serve as tenement for your spirit. Abraham taught that "these ... spirits ...
existed before, they shall have no end ... for they are ... eternal." ([Abr.
3:18](/scriptures/pgp/abr/3.18?lang=eng#17).)

Your spirit acquired a body at birth and became a soul to live in mortality
through periods of trial and testing. Part of each test is to determine _if_
your body can become mastered by the spirit that dwells within it.

Although your spirit had a veil of forgetfulness placed over it at the time of
your birth into mortality, it retained its power to remember all that happens
--precisely recording each event of life. Indeed, scriptures warn "that every
idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of
judgment." ([Matt. 12:36](/scriptures/nt/matt/12.36?lang=eng#35).) Prophets
refer to our "bright recollection" ([Alma
11:43](/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.43?lang=eng#42)) and "perfect remembrance"
([Alma 5:18](/scriptures/bofm/alma/5.18?lang=eng#17)) at that day of decision.

Since thoughts precede deeds, you must first learn to control your thoughts.
"As [a man] thinketh in his heart, so is he." ([Prov.
23:7](/scriptures/ot/prov/23.7?lang=eng#6).)

In your quest for self-mastery, full participation in the activities of the
Church will help. I'll mention but a few. A first step comes as we learn
together to keep the Sabbath day holy. This is one of the Ten Commandments.
(See [Ex. 20:8](/scriptures/ot/ex/20.8?lang=eng#7); [Deut.
5:15](/scriptures/ot/deut/5.15?lang=eng#14).) We honor the Sabbath "to pay
[our] devotions unto the Most High" ([D&amp;C 59:10](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/59.10?lang=eng#9)), and because the Lord declared: "It is a sign
between me and you ... that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify
you." ([Ex. 31:13](/scriptures/ot/ex/31.13?lang=eng#12); see also [Ezek.
20:20](/scriptures/ot/ezek/20.20?lang=eng#19).)

Another step toward self-mastery comes when you are old enough to observe the
law of the fast. As funds are contributed from meals missed, the needs of the
poor may be met. But meanwhile, through your spirit, you develop personal
power over your body's drives of hunger and thirst. Fasting gives you
confidence to know that your spirit can master appetite.

Some time ago your mother and I visited a third-world country where sanitary
conditions were much poorer than ours. We joined with a delegation of other
doctors from all over the world. The president of our group, an experienced
traveler, warned of risks. In order to avoid water that might be contaminated,
we were even counseled to brush our teeth with an alcoholic beverage. We chose
not to follow that counsel, but simply did what we had learned to do once a
month. We fasted that first day, thinking we could introduce simple food and
fluids gradually thereafter. Later, we were the only ones in our group without
disabling illness.

Fasting fortifies discipline over appetite and helps to protect against later
uncontrolled cravings and gnawing habits.

Another step toward self-mastery comes from obedience to the Word of Wisdom.
Remember, it contains a "promise, adapted to the capacity of ... the weakest of
all saints." ([D&amp;C 89:3](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/89.3?lang=eng#2).) It
was given "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the
hearts of conspiring men in the last days." ([D&amp;C 89:4](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/89.4?lang=eng#3).) Indeed, as you develop courage to say no to
alcohol, tobacco, and other stimulants, you gain additional strength. You can
then refuse conspiring men--those seditious solicitors of harmful substances
or smut. You can reject their evil enticements to your body.

If you yield to anything that can addict, and thus defy the Word of Wisdom,
your spirit surrenders to the body. The _flesh_ then enslaves the _spirit._
This is contrary to the purpose of your mortal existence. And in the process
of such addiction, your life span is likely to be shortened, thereby reducing
the time available for repentance by which your spirit might attain self-
mastery over your body.

Other physical appeals come during your courtship period. In your youth, you
may be challenged by restraints of parents hoping to guide you through this
wonderful period of life.

Because the adversary is keenly aware of the power of physical temptation,
Alma instructed his son and all of us: "See that ye bridle all your passions."
([Alma 38:12](/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.12?lang=eng#11).)

When you marry, you and your eternal companion may then invoke the power of
procreation, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your posterity. This
divine endowment is guarded by your Creator's law of chastity. All through the
years, remember: chastity is the powerful protector of virile manhood and the
crown of beautiful womanhood.

In courtship and marriage, virtue seems to come under attack first. Mental
turmoil that trails in the wake of weakness from lust has evoked many a tear
from innocent loved ones. Without repentance, tumult within self does not quit
either.

Shakespeare expressed such self-conflict as one of his characters
contemplating conquest in lust spoke these lines:

_What win I, if I gain the thing I seek?_

_A dream, a breath, a froth of fleeting joy._

_Who buys a minute's mirth to wail a week?_

_Or sells eternity to get a toy?_

_ For one sweet grape who will the vine destroy?_

Prophets have repeatedly cautioned about moral sin. One, for example, warned:
"O, my beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in transgressing against that
Holy God, and also the awfulness of yielding to the enticings of that cunning
one. Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is
life eternal." ([2 Ne. 9:39](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.39?lang=eng#38); see also
[Rom. 8:6](/scriptures/nt/rom/8.6?lang=eng#5); [Alma
36:4](/scriptures/bofm/alma/36.4?lang=eng#3); [D&amp;C 29:35](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/29.35?lang=eng#34); [D&amp;C 67:10](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/67.10?lang=eng#9).)

Now don't misunderstand me. I would not want you to neglect your body. It
deserves daily care. Physical conditioning through regular exercise requires
self-mastery too. I marvel at Elder Joseph Anderson, now in his ninety-sixth
year. For decades, the strength of his spirit over his body has induced him to
swim regularly. But his motivation has never been to attain physical
longevity. That has come only incidentally. His desire has been to serve God
and His anointed. Elder Anderson has followed what I label as the Lord's
prescription for a long and useful life. Those faithful in "magnifying their
calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies. They
become ... the elect of God." ([D&amp;C 84:33-34](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/84.33-34?lang=eng#32).)

Elder Anderson's exercise program agrees with the perspective of Paul, who
said: "Bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable unto all
things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come."
([1 Tim. 4:8](/scriptures/nt/1-tim/4.8?lang=eng#7).)

Handsome and fit, Elder Anderson personifies this scripture: "Glorify God in
your body, and in your spirit, which are God's." ([1 Cor.
6:20](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/6.20?lang=eng#19).)

As you work during the productive years of life, whether at home or in the
field, in the factory or at a workbench, reputation is built and character is
forged as you develop self-mastery. Faithful payment of tithing is part of
that process. It defends you against dishonesty or shabby temptations.
Courageous accountability for your own actions becomes a cherished prize.

It really matters what you listen to, what you look at, what you think, say,
and do. Select music that will strengthen your spirit. Control your speech;
keep it free from profanity and vulgarity. Follow the teachings of this
proverb: "My mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my
lips.

"All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing ... perverse
in them." ([Prov. 8:7-8](/scriptures/ot/prov/8.7-8?lang=eng#6).)

As you approach old age, you will face new challenges to self-mastery.
Symptoms of the deteriorating body can be painful, even disabling. Deep aches
of sadness are caused by the departing of loved ones. For some, these
deepening trials come early in life. But when yours are thrust upon you,
remember a concept expressed by my father some time after my mother had passed
away. Your grandparents had been married for sixty-four years. When someone
asked how he was doing, my father simply stated, "I'm lonely, but I'm not
lonesome." Do you know what he meant? Though he was now without his
sweetheart, he was so busy assisting family and friends, he had replaced
sorrow with service and had displaced self-pity with selfless love. He had
found joy in following the timeless example of the Master.

Jesus, our Savior, was born in the lowliest of circumstances. For his baptism
he was immersed in the lowest body of fresh water upon the planet. In service
and suffering, he also "descended below" all things ([D&amp;C
122:8](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/122.8?lang=eng#7)), that he could rise
above all things. Near the end of his life, he triumphantly declared, "I have
overcome the world." ([John 16:33](/scriptures/nt/john/16.33?lang=eng#32).)
"Look unto me, and endure to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that
endureth to the end will I give eternal life." ([3 Ne.
15:9](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/15.9?lang=eng#8).) Scriptures tutor us at least
twenty-six times* to endure to the end to attain eternal life. Then we will
obtain a resurrected body--one that is incorruptible, glorified, and prepared
to live in the presence of God.

To reach your highest destiny, emulate the Savior. He proclaimed, "What manner
of men ought ye to be? ... Even as I am." ([3 Ne.
27:27](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/27.27?lang=eng#26).) Our loftiest hope is to grow
in spirit and attain "the stature of the fulness of Christ: That we henceforth
be no more children." ([Eph.
4:13-14](/scriptures/nt/eph/4.13-14?lang=eng#12).)

You will then be well prepared for that pending day of judgment when, as
taught by President Spencer W. Kimball, "the soul, composed of the resurrected
body and the eternal spirit, ... will come before the great judge to receive its
final assignment for the eternity" (_The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball,_ ed.
Edward L. Kimball, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1982, p. 46.)

Remember, my dear one, not an age in life passes without temptation, trial, or
torment experienced through your physical body. But as you prayerfully develop
self-mastery, desires of the flesh may be subdued. And when that has been
achieved, you may have the strength to submit to your Heavenly Father, as did
Jesus, who said, "Not my will, but thine, be done." ([Luke
22:42](/scriptures/nt/luke/22.42?lang=eng#41).)

When deepening trials come your way, remember this glorious promise of the
Savior: "To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even
as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne." ([Rev.
3:21](/scriptures/nt/rev/3.21?lang=eng#20).)

Christ is our great Exemplar. I declare, as a special witness, that he is the
Son of God and "is the life and the light of the world." ([Alma
38:9](/scriptures/bofm/alma/38.9?lang=eng#8); see also [D&amp;C
11:28](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/11.28?lang=eng#27).) We develop self-
mastery as we become like him, I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

