# The Savior Wants to Forgive

During the time of our Savior's mortal ministry, many followed after Him,
including scribes and Pharisees "out of every town of Galilee, ... Judaea, and
Jerusalem."[1] A bedridden, paralyzed man desiring to be healed was brought to
a large gathering, but unable to get him close to the Savior, his friends took
him to the roof of the house where the Savior was and lowered him down. Seeing
this demonstration of faith, with a great purpose not yet known to His
listeners, the Savior declared, "Man, thy sins are forgiven thee."[2]

This must have surprised the man, and although the scriptures say nothing of
his reaction, he may have wondered if the Savior really understood why he had
come.

The Savior knew that many people followed Him because of His mighty miracles.
Already He had turned water to wine,[3] cast out unclean spirits,[4] and
healed the nobleman's son,[5] a leper,[6] Peter's mother-in-law,[7] and many
others.[8]

But with this paralyzed man, the Lord chose to give evidence to both disciple
and detractor of His unique role as Savior of the world. Hearing the Savior's
words, the scribes and Pharisees had begun to reason among themselves,
ignorantly speaking of blasphemy while concluding that only God can forgive
sin. Perceiving their thoughts, the Savior addressed them, saying:

"What reason ye in your hearts?

"Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and
walk?"[9]

Not waiting for their response, the Savior continued, "But that ye may know
that the Son of man hath power _upon earth_ to forgive sins, [He then turned
to the paralyzed man] I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go
into thine house."[10] And he did!

By this miraculous physical healing, the Savior confirmed to all of us this
infinitely more powerful spiritual truth: the Son of Man forgives sins!

While this truth is readily accepted by all believers, not so easily
acknowledged is the essential companion truth: the Savior forgives sins "upon
earth" and not just at the Final Judgment. He does not excuse us _in_ our
sins.[11] He does not condone our return to past sins.[12] But when we repent
and obey His gospel, He forgives us.[13]

In this forgiveness we see the enabling _and_ the redeeming power of the
Atonement harmoniously and graciously applied. If we exercise faith in the
Lord Jesus Christ, the enabling power of His Atonement _strengthens_ us in our
moment of need,[14] and His redeeming power _sanctifies_ us as we "[put] off
the natural man."[15] This brings hope to all, especially to those who feel
that recurring human weakness is beyond the Savior's willingness to help and
to save.

Providing an opportunity for the Savior to enlighten our understanding,[16]
Peter once inquired how many times he should forgive his brother and then
asked, "Till seven times?" Surely that would be more than enough. But the
Savior's response opened wide the door to _His_ merciful heart: "I say _not_
unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven."[17]

The Lord loves us and wants us to understand His willingness to forgive. On
more than 20 occasions in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord told those to
whom He was speaking, "Thy sins are forgiven thee," or similar words.[18] On
about half of those occasions, the Lord's words were directed specifically to
the Prophet Joseph Smith, sometimes addressing him alone, sometimes with
others.[19] The first of these was recorded in 1830, the last in 1843. Thus,
over a span of many years, the Lord told Joseph repeatedly, "Thy sins are
forgiven thee."

While Joseph was not "guilty of any great or malignant sins,"[20] we do well
to remember that with very few exceptions, the Lord's "seventy times seven"
does not limit forgiveness according to the seriousness of the sin.

While speaking to elders assembled in Kirtland, the Lord said, "I will that ye
should overcome the world; _wherefore_ I will have compassion upon you."[21]
The Lord knows our weakness and the eternal consequences of "the world" upon
imperfect men and women.[22] The word _wherefore_ in this verse is His
affirmation that it is only by virtue of His compassion that we may ultimately
"overcome the world." How is that compassion made manifest? To these same
elders in Kirtland, He said, "I have forgiven you your sins."[23]_ The Savior
wants to forgive._

No one need suppose that this forgiveness comes without repentance. Indeed,
the Lord has declared, "I, the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their
sins before me and ask forgiveness," and then He adds the cautionary qualifier
"who have not sinned unto death."[24] While the Lord "cannot look upon sin
with the least degree of allowance,"[25] yet He differentiates the relative
gravity of some sins. He stipulates there will be no forgiveness for
"blasphemy against the Holy Ghost."[26] He declares the gravity of murder[27]
and emphasizes the seriousness of sexual sin such as adultery.[28] With regard
to repeated serious sexual sin, He makes known the increased difficulty of
receiving His forgiveness.[29] And He has said that "he who sins against the
greater light shall receive the greater condemnation."[30] Yet, in His mercy,
He allows for improvement over time rather than demanding immediate
perfection. Even with the multitude of sins occasioned by the weakness of
mortality, as often as we repent and seek His forgiveness, He forgives again
and again.[31]

Because of this, all of us, including those struggling to overcome addictive
behaviors such as substance abuse or pornography and those close to them, can
know that the Lord will recognize our righteous efforts and will lovingly
forgive when repentance is complete, "until seventy times seven." But this
does not mean one may _willingly_ return to sin with impunity.[32]

The Lord is always interested in our hearts,[33] and rationalized false faith
does not justify sin.[34] In this dispensation the Lord warned one of His
servants against such rationalization by declaring, "Let [him] be ashamed of
the Nicolaitane band and of all their secret abominations."[35] The
Nicolaitans were an ancient religious sect that claimed license to commit
sexual sin by virtue of the Lord's grace.[36] This is not pleasing to the
Lord.[37] His compassion and grace do not excuse us when "[our] hearts are not
satisfied. And [we] obey not the truth, but have pleasure in
unrighteousness."[38] Rather, after we do all we can do,[39] His compassion
and grace are the means whereby "in process of time"[40] we overcome the world
through the enabling power of the Atonement. As we humbly seek this precious
gift, "weak things become strong unto [us],"[41] and by _His_ strength, we are
made able to do that which we could never do alone.

The Lord looks upon the light we have received,[42] the desires of our
hearts,[43] and our actions,[44] and when we repent and seek His forgiveness,
He forgives. As we consider our own lives and the lives of our loved ones and
acquaintances, we should be equally willing to forgive ourselves and
others.[45]

_Preach My Gospel_ speaks of the difficulty in overcoming addictive behavior
and encourages priesthood leaders and members to "not be shocked or
discouraged" if investigators or new members continue to struggle with such
problems. Rather, we are counseled to "show confidence in the individual and
not be judgmental ... [treating] it as a temporary and understandable
setback."[46] Could we do less with our own children or family members who
struggle with similar problems, having temporarily strayed from the path of
righteousness? Surely they merit our steadiness, patience, and love--and yes,
our forgiveness.

In general conference just last October, President Monson counseled:

"We need to bear in mind that people can change. They can put behind them bad
habits. They can repent from transgressions. ...

"... We can help them to overcome their shortcomings. We must develop the
capacity to see men _not_ as they are at present but as they may become."[47]

At an early conference of the Church, similar to this conference, the Lord
told the members:

"Verily I say unto you, ye are clean, but not all; ...

"For _all flesh_ is corrupted before me. ...

"... For verily some of you are guilty before me, _but I will be merciful unto
your weakness._"[48]

His message is the same today.

Our Heavenly Father knows what we are facing, that we all sin and "come short
of the glory of God"[49] again and again. He sent His Son, who "knoweth the
weakness of man and how to succor them who are tempted."[50] His Son teaches
us to "pray always that [we] enter _not_ into temptation."[51] We are told to
"cry unto [God] for _mercy;_ for he is mighty to save."[52] The Savior
commands us to repent[53] and to forgive.[54] And although repentance is not
easy, as we strive with all our hearts to obey His gospel, He gives this
promise: "Verily I say unto you, notwithstanding [your] sins, _my bowels are
filled with compassion towards [you]._ I will not utterly cast [you] off; _and
in the day of wrath I will remember mercy._"[55] The Savior wants to forgive.

Each week the Mormon Tabernacle Choir begins its inspiring broadcast with the
uplifting words of William W. Phelps's familiar hymn "Gently Raise the Sacred
Strain." Not as familiar are the comforting words of the fourth verse:

Holy, holy is the Lord.

Precious, precious is his word: ...

Repent and live;

Tho your sins be crimson red,

Oh, repent, and he'll forgive.[56]

I invite you to remember and believe the words of the Lord and to exercise
faith in Him unto repentance.[57] He loves you. He wants to forgive. I so
testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.  [Luke 5:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/5.17?lang=eng#16); see also [Mark 2:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/2.2?lang=eng#1).

  2.  [Luke 5:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/5.20?lang=eng#19); see also [Matthew 9:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/9.2?lang=eng#1); [Mark 2:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/2.5?lang=eng#4).

  3.  See [John 2:1-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/2.1-11?lang=eng#0).

  4.  See [Mark 1:21-28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/1.21-28?lang=eng#20); [Luke 4:33-37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/4.33-37?lang=eng#32).

  5.  See [John 4:46-54](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/4.46-54?lang=eng#45).

  6.  See [Matthew 8:1-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/8.1-4?lang=eng#0); [Mark 1:40-45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/1.40-45?lang=eng#39); [Luke 5:12-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/5.12-15?lang=eng#11).

  7.  See [Matthew 8:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/8.14-15?lang=eng#13); [Mark 1:29-31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/1.29-31?lang=eng#28); [Luke 4:38-39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/4.38-39?lang=eng#37).

  8.  See [Matthew 8:16-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/8.16-17?lang=eng#15); [Mark 1:32-34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/1.32-34?lang=eng#31); [Luke 4:40-41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/4.40-41?lang=eng#39).

  9.  [Luke 5:22-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/5.22-23?lang=eng#21); see also [Matthew 9:3-5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/9.3-5?lang=eng#2); [Mark 2:6-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/2.6-9?lang=eng#5).

  10.  [Luke 5:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/5.24?lang=eng#23); emphasis added; see also [Matthew 9:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/9.6-7?lang=eng#5); [Mark 2:10-12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/2.10-12?lang=eng#9).

  11.  See [1 Corinthians 6:9-10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-cor/6.9-10?lang=eng#8); [Alma 11:34, 37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.34%2C37?lang=eng#33); [Helaman 5:10-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/5.10-11?lang=eng#9).

  12.  See [2 Peter 2:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/2.20?lang=eng#19); [James 2:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/james/2.10?lang=eng#9); [Doctrine and Covenants 82:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/82.7?lang=eng#6).

  13.  See [Isaiah 1:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/1.18?lang=eng#17); [Jeremiah 31:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/jer/31.34?lang=eng#33); [Luke 7:36-50](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/7.36-50?lang=eng#35); [Enos 1:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/enos/1.5?lang=eng#4); [Alma 24:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/24.10?lang=eng#9); [Moroni 6:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.8?lang=eng#7); [Doctrine and Covenants 1:32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.32?lang=eng#31); [58:42-43](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/58.42-43?lang=eng#41).

  14.  See [Jacob 4:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/jacob/4.7?lang=eng#6); [Alma 14:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/14.26?lang=eng#25); [Moroni 10:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/10.7?lang=eng#6).

  15.  [Mosiah 3:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/3.19?lang=eng#18); see also [2 Nephi 10:24-25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/10.24-25?lang=eng#23).

  16.  See [Alma 32:28, 34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/32.28%2C34?lang=eng#27).

  17.  [Matthew 18:21-22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/18.21-22?lang=eng#20); emphasis added; see also [Luke 17:1-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/17.1-4?lang=eng#0).

  18.  See [Doctrine and Covenants 20:5-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.5-7?lang=eng#4); [25:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/25.3?lang=eng#2); [29:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/29.3?lang=eng#2); [31:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/31.5?lang=eng#4); [36:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/36.1?lang=eng#0); [50:36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/50.36?lang=eng#35); [60:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/60.6-7?lang=eng#5); [61:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/61.2?lang=eng#1); [62:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/62.3?lang=eng#2); [64:1-4, 5-7, 15-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.1-4%2C5-7%2C15-17?lang=eng#0); [75:6-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/75.6-8?lang=eng#5); [82:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/82.1?lang=eng#0); [84:60-61](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.60-61?lang=eng#59); [90:1, 6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/90.1%2C6?lang=eng#0); [108:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/108.1?lang=eng#0); [110:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.5?lang=eng#4); [112:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/112.3?lang=eng#2); [124:74-76, 78](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/124.74-76%2C78?lang=eng#73); [132:50](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.50?lang=eng#49).

  19.  See [Doctrine and Covenants 20:5-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.5-7?lang=eng#4); [29:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/29.3?lang=eng#2); [60:6-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/60.6-7?lang=eng#5); [61:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/61.2?lang=eng#1); [62:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/62.3?lang=eng#2); [64:5-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.5-7?lang=eng#4); [84:60-61](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.60-61?lang=eng#59); [90:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/90.1?lang=eng#0); [110:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/110.5?lang=eng#4); [132:50](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.50?lang=eng#49).

  20.  [Joseph Smith--History 1:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.28?lang=eng#27).

  21.  [Doctrine and Covenants 64:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.2?lang=eng#1); emphasis added.

  22.  See [1 Nephi 20:9-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/20.9-11?lang=eng#8); [Doctrine and Covenants 24:2](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/24.2?lang=eng#1); [50:41](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/50.41?lang=eng#40); [63:47](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/63.47?lang=eng#46); [108:1-8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/108.1-8?lang=eng#0).

  23.  [Doctrine and Covenants 64:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.3?lang=eng#2).

  24.  [Doctrine and Covenants 64:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.7?lang=eng#6).

  25.  [Doctrine and Covenants 1:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.31?lang=eng#30); see also [verses 32-33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.32-33?lang=eng#31); [Alma 45:16](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/45.16?lang=eng#15).

  26.  [Doctrine and Covenants 132:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.27?lang=eng#26); see also [Matthew 12:31](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/12.31?lang=eng#30); [Luke 12:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/luke/12.10?lang=eng#9).

  27.  See [Exodus 20:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ex/20.13?lang=eng#12); [Mosiah 13:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/13.21?lang=eng#20); [Doctrine and Covenants 132:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132.19?lang=eng#18); [Moses 5:31-36](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/5.31-36?lang=eng#30).

  28.  See [Alma 39:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/39.5?lang=eng#4); [Doctrine and Covenants 42:24-26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.24-26?lang=eng#23).

  29.  See [Doctrine and Covenants 42:22-26, 75-78, 80-82](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/42.22-26%2C75-78%2C80-82?lang=eng#21); [63:13-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/63.13-17?lang=eng#12); [76:103](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76.103?lang=eng#102).

  30.  [Doctrine and Covenants 82:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/82.3?lang=eng#2); see also [John 15:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/15.22?lang=eng#21).

  31.  See [Moroni 6:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.8?lang=eng#7).

  32.  See [Mosiah 15:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/15.26?lang=eng#25).

  33.  See [1 Samuel 16:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/1-sam/16.7?lang=eng#6); [Psalm 24:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/24.3-4?lang=eng#2); [Proverbs 23:7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/prov/23.7?lang=eng#6); [Matthew 15:18-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/15.18-20?lang=eng#17); [Mark 7:20-23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/mark/7.20-23?lang=eng#19); [Hebrews 3:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/3.12?lang=eng#11); [3 Nephi 12:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.19?lang=eng#18); [Doctrine and Covenants 59:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/59.8?lang=eng#7); [64:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.34?lang=eng#33).

  34.  See [Doctrine and Covenants 20:29-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/20.29-30?lang=eng#28); [121:37](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.37?lang=eng#36).

  35.  [Doctrine and Covenants 117:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/117.11?lang=eng#10).

  36.  See [Bible Dictionary, "Nicolaitans."](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bd/nicolaitans?lang=eng)

  37.  See [Revelation 2:6, 15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rev/2.6%2C15?lang=eng#5).

  38.  [Doctrine and Covenants 56:15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/56.15?lang=eng#14).

  39.  See [2 Nephi 25:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/25.23?lang=eng#22); [Doctrine and Covenants 138:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/138.4?lang=eng#3).

  40.  [Moses 7:21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.21?lang=eng#20).

  41.  [Ether 12:27](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/ether/12.27?lang=eng#26).

  42.  See [John 15:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/15.22?lang=eng#21); [Doctrine and Covenants 1:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.33?lang=eng#32); [82:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/82.3?lang=eng#2).

  43.  See [Alma 41:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.5-6?lang=eng#4); [3 Nephi 9:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/9.20?lang=eng#19); [Doctrine and Covenants 137:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/137.9?lang=eng#8).

  44.  See [1 Nephi 15:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/15.33?lang=eng#32); [Alma 41:3-4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/41.3-4?lang=eng#2); [Doctrine and Covenants 137:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/137.9?lang=eng#8).

  45.  See [Matthew 6:14-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/6.14-15?lang=eng#13); [Doctrine and Covenants 64:8-10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.8-10?lang=eng#7); [98:39-48](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/98.39-48?lang=eng#38).

  46.  _Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service_ (2004), 189.

  47.  Thomas S. Monson, "See Others as They May Become," _Ensign_ or _Liahona,_ Nov. 2012, 68, 69; emphasis added.

  48.  [Doctrine and Covenants 38:10-11, 14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/38.10-11%2C14?lang=eng#9); emphasis added.

  49.  [Romans 3:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/3.23?lang=eng#22).

  50.  [Doctrine and Covenants 62:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/62.1?lang=eng#0); see also [Alma 7:12](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.12?lang=eng#11).

  51.  [Doctrine and Covenants 61:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/61.39?lang=eng#38); emphasis added.

  52.  [Alma 34:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.18?lang=eng#17); emphasis added; see also [2 Nephi 31:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.19?lang=eng#18); [Alma 7:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/7.14?lang=eng#13).

  53.  See [Helaman 13:11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/13.11?lang=eng#10); [Doctrine and Covenants 19:4, 13-21](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/19.4%2C13-21?lang=eng#3).

  54.  See [Doctrine and Covenants 64:8-10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.8-10?lang=eng#7).

  55.  [Doctrine and Covenants 101:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.9?lang=eng#8); emphasis added; see also [Doctrine and Covenants 82:1-7](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/82.1-7?lang=eng#0).

  56.  "Gently Raise the Sacred Strain," _Hymns,_ no. 146.

  57.  See [Alma 34:15-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.15-17?lang=eng#14).

