# Nobody Said That It Would Be Easy

My dear brethren of the priesthood, it is sincerely a great pleasure to stand
before you this evening and share with you the feelings and gratitude that I
have, to know that God lives and that he loves us, that Jesus Christ is our
Elder Brother and Savior, and that there is a prophet on the earth that can
authoritatively say, "Thus saith the Lord." I treat with great reverence and
humility the fact that the Lord has called me to serve as a Seventy and to
witness to the world that Jesus is the Christ, and I will do my very best to
move the work ahead, wherever I am assigned to labor.

I would like to speak to you about the importance of service in the kingdom of
God and the importance of full-time mission service in the lives of our young
men and older couples.

Without appearing to be self-serving, I would like to tell you young men of
the Aaronic Priesthood a little about my call to a full-time mission. The year
was 1962, and a call was received from President David O. McKay to serve in
the Mexican Mission. Shortly after receiving the call, I learned that I had
bone cancer in my right arm and that the probability of my living many weeks
was extremely low. A blessing was received from a wonderful father, wherein he
blessed me with my life and that the mission call would be fulfilled, and that
I would have a family and be able to serve the Lord all my days.

The doctor congratulated me on being one who had great faith in the Savior but
assured me that I didn't realize the seriousness of what I had. As some of you
have noticed, I only have one arm as a result of that problem; but ten months
after having my arm amputated, I entered the Mexican Mission, full of
excitement and ready to work. You see, young men, I had several years earlier
committed to the Lord that I would serve a full-time mission and that I would
not let anything stop me from fulfilling that call. Well, brethren, the doctor
passed away twenty years ago, always amazed to see me still breathing, and he
actually became quite interested in the Church.

Brethren, I want you to know that having one arm for nearly thirty years has
been one of the greatest blessings of my life. It hasn't been my greatest
challenge, but it has been a great teacher to me, teaching me to be more
patient and tolerant with others as I have had to learn to be more patient
with myself. It has helped me to understand the necessity of our having
challenges in life to help develop our character and stamina, helping us to
become what the Lord ultimately wants us to become.

Our challenges may be physical, spiritual, economic, or emotional, but if we
will treat them as opportunities and stepping-stones in our progress, rather
than barriers and stumbling blocks, our lives and growth will be wonderful. I
have learned that between challenges it is very restful but that any real
growth that I have ever enjoyed has always come with a challenge.

There's a little poem by an unknown author that we might think about when
problems come our way. It is called "The Oyster."

_There once was an oyster_

_Whose story I'll tell,_

_Who found that some sand_

_Had worked under his shell._

_Just one little grain_

_But it gave him a pain,_

_For oysters have feelings_

_That are very plain._

_Now did he berate_

_This working of fate,_

_That left him in such a_

_Deplorable state?_

_Did he curse the government,_

_Call for an election,_

_And say that the sea_

_Should have some protection?_

_No! He said to himself_

_As he sat on the shelf,_

_"Since I cannot remove it,_

_I think I'll improve it."_

_Well, years passed by,_

_As years always do,_

_Till he came to his destiny,_

_Oyster stew!_

_But the small grain of sand_

_That bothered him so_

_Was a beautiful pearl_

_All richly aglow._

_Now this tale has a moral,_

_For isn't it grand,_

_What an oyster can do_

_With a small grain of sand?_

_And what couldn't we do_

_If we'd only begin_

_With all of the things_

_That get under our skin?_

Young men, how are you going to meet the challenges that face you and that
might jeopardize an opportunity to serve? It might be vocational
opportunities, a car, a girlfriend, an assorted variety of sins, or a myriad
of other reasons. For the older brethren, it might be a yacht, camper, fishing
plans, or maybe not wanting to miss some expected weddings and births.
Whatever your individual challenges might be, I would invite you this very
night to get on your knees and commit to your Heavenly Father that you will
not allow anything to stop you from fulfilling that wonderful opportunity to
serve a full-time mission. If you haven't been called, let your bishop know of
your desire to serve.

When in the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew the Lord said, "Inasmuch as ye
have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto
me" ([Matt. 25:40](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/25.40?lang=eng#39)),
he was talking about the importance of being of service to our fellowmen if we
want to be worthy of his presence. What better way could there be to serve and
to sacrifice than to accept a full-time mission call? At the same time, please
realize that there are some handicaps and limitations that make other types of
local service more practical than serving a full-time mission.

In the priesthood session of April conference, Elder Neal A. Maxwell said,
"Now, my brethren, 'these are [your] days' ([Hel.
7:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/hel/7.9?lang=eng#8)) in the history
of the Church." (_Ensign,_ May 1992, p. 39.) Yes, my young brethren, these are
your days, to be a part of 50,000, 75,000, and 100,000 missionaries serving in
the army of the Lord, armed with peace, righteousness, and power.

While presiding over the Mexico City North Mission in the late seventies, we
decided to open the work in an area called the Huasteca, where there was only
one Latter-day Saint family in a vast area with several communities and small
cities. After two years, there were 500 members of the Church in five branches
and an organized district. This was done by a handful of nineteen- and twenty-
year-old faithful missionaries and two wonderful couples, who gave of
themselves to see that others of Heavenly Father's children might know and
understand.

After the missionaries had been in the Huasteca for about three weeks, we
received a phone call from one of them, and we could tell that he was slightly
discouraged, not having yet received any mail, being in a hot area with high
humidity, and learning about a culture that was new to all of us. After we had
talked for a minute or two, I reminded him that we had talked about the fact
that it wouldn't be easy. He said, "Oh, that's right, President; that's right.
It wouldn't be easy. I knew it wouldn't be easy." Well, he went ahead with
great enthusiasm and concluded his very successful work there and was released
to return home. A couple of months later, while he was at BYU, he and some of
his former companions called Sister Dickson and me at the mission home in
Mexico City at 2:30 in the morning, waking us from a very sound sleep. After a
short conversation, I mentioned the fact that it was wonderful to talk with
them but that it seemed a little late at night to be calling. He said, "I
know, President, but you knew it wouldn't be easy."

Brethren, life is not intended to be easy, but I promise those that labor
faithfully in the service of their fellowmen, and with determination handle
every challenge properly and under the influence of the Spirit, that they will
be blessed with feelings of happiness which will permeate their whole souls,
and these, my brethren, are blessings that mold and build us and that can
never be taken away.

I leave you with my testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel of the Lord,
Jesus Christ and my testimony of the blessings which accompany unselfish
service and hard work that is done in his holy name, and I say it in the name
of Jesus Christ, amen.

