# The Only True God and Jesus Christ Whom He Hath Sent

As Elder Ballard noted earlier in this session, various cross-currents of our
times have brought increasing public attention to The Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. The Lord told the ancients this latter-day work would be
"a marvellous work and a wonder,"[1] and it is. But even as we invite one and
all to examine closely the _marvel_ of it, there is one thing we would not
like anyone to _wonder_ about--that is whether or not we are "Christians."

By and large any controversy in this matter has swirled around two doctrinal
issues--our view of the Godhead and our belief in the principle of continuing
revelation leading to an open scriptural canon. In addressing this we do not
need to be apologists for our faith, but we would like not to be
misunderstood. So with a desire to increase understanding and unequivocally
declare our Christianity, I speak today on the first of those two doctrinal
issues just mentioned.

Our first and foremost article of faith in The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints is "We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son,
Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost."[2] We believe these three divine persons
constituting a single Godhead are united in purpose, in manner, in testimony,
in mission. We believe Them to be filled with the same godly sense of mercy
and love, justice and grace, patience, forgiveness, and redemption. I think it
is accurate to say we believe They are one in every significant and eternal
aspect imaginable _except_ believing Them to be three persons combined in one
substance, a Trinitarian notion never set forth in the scriptures because it
is not true.

Indeed no less a source than the stalwart _Harper's Bible Dictionary_ records
that "the formal doctrine of the Trinity as it was defined by the great church
councils of the fourth and fifth centuries is _not_ to be found in the [New
Testament]."[3]

So any criticism that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints does not
hold the contemporary Christian view of God, Jesus, and the Holy Ghost is
_not_ a comment about our commitment to Christ but rather a recognition
(accurate, I might add) that our view of the Godhead breaks with post-New
Testament Christian history and returns to the doctrine taught by Jesus
Himself. Now, a word about that post-New Testament history might be helpful.

In the year A.D. 325 the Roman emperor Constantine convened the Council of
Nicaea to address--among other things--the growing issue of God's alleged
"trinity in unity." What emerged from the heated contentions of churchmen,
philosophers, and ecclesiastical dignitaries came to be known (after another
125 years and three more major councils)[4] as the Nicene Creed, with later
reformulations such as the Athanasian Creed. These various evolutions and
iterations of creeds--and others to come over the centuries--declared the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost to be abstract, absolute, transcendent, immanent,
consubstantial, coeternal, and unknowable, without body, parts, or passions
and dwelling outside space and time. In such creeds all three members are
separate persons, but they are a single being, the oft-noted "mystery of the
trinity." They are three distinct persons, yet not three Gods but one. All
three persons are incomprehensible, yet it is one God who is incomprehensible.

We agree with our critics on at least that point--that such a formulation for
divinity is truly incomprehensible. With such a confusing definition of God
being imposed upon the church, little wonder that a fourth-century monk cried
out, "Woe is me! They have taken my God away from me, ... and I know not whom to
adore or to address."[5] How _are_ we to trust, love, worship, to say nothing
of strive to be like, One who is incomprehensible and unknowable? What of
Jesus's prayer to His Father in Heaven that "this is life eternal, that they
might _know thee_ the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom _thou_ hast
sent"?[6]

It is not our purpose to demean any person's belief nor the doctrine of any
religion. We extend to all the same respect for their doctrine that we are
asking for ours. (That, too, is an article of our faith.) But if one says we
are not Christians because we do not hold a fourth- or fifth-century view of
the Godhead, then what of those first Christian Saints, many of whom were
eyewitnesses of the living Christ, who did not hold such a view either?[7]

We declare it is self-evident from the scriptures that the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Ghost are separate persons, three divine beings, noting such
unequivocal illustrations as the Savior's great Intercessory Prayer just
mentioned, His baptism at the hands of John, the experience on the Mount of
Transfiguration, and the martyrdom of Stephen--to name just four.

With these New Testament sources and more[8] ringing in our ears, it may be
redundant to ask what Jesus meant when He said, "The Son can do nothing of
himself, but what he seeth the Father do."[9] On another occasion He said, "I
came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent
me."[10] Of His antagonists He said, "[They have] ... seen and hated both me and
my Father."[11] And there is, of course, that always deferential subordination
to His Father that had Jesus say, "Why callest thou me good? there is none
good but one, that is, God."[12] "My father is greater than I."[13]

To whom was Jesus pleading so fervently all those years, including in such
anguished cries as "O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from
me"[14] and "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me"?[15] To acknowledge
the scriptural evidence that otherwise perfectly united members of the Godhead
are nevertheless separate and distinct beings is not to be guilty of
polytheism; it is, rather, part of the great revelation Jesus came to deliver
concerning the nature of divine beings. Perhaps the Apostle Paul said it best:
"Christ Jesus ... being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal
with God."[16]

A related reason The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is excluded
from the Christian category by some is because we believe, as did the ancient
prophets and apostles, in an embodied--but certainly glorified--God.[17] To
those who criticize this scripturally based belief, I ask at least
rhetorically: If the idea of an embodied God is repugnant, why are the central
doctrines and singularly most distinguishing characteristics of all
Christianity the Incarnation, the Atonement, and the physical Resurrection of
the Lord Jesus Christ? If having a body is not only not needed but not
desirable by Deity, why did the Redeemer of mankind redeem _His_ body,
redeeming it from the grasp of death and the grave, guaranteeing it would
never again be separated from His spirit in time or eternity?[18]_Any who
dismiss the concept of an embodied God dismiss both the mortal and the
resurrected Christ._ No one claiming to be a true Christian will want to do
that.

Now, to anyone within the sound of my voice who has wondered regarding our
Christianity, I bear this witness. I testify that Jesus Christ is the literal,
living Son of our literal, living God. This Jesus is our Savior and Redeemer
who, under the guidance of the Father, was the Creator of heaven and earth and
all things that in them are. I bear witness that He was born of a virgin
mother, that in His lifetime He performed mighty miracles observed by legions
of His disciples and by His enemies as well. I testify that He had power over
death because He was divine but that He willingly subjected Himself to death
for our sake because for a period of time He was also mortal. I declare that
in His willing submission to death He took upon Himself the sins of the world,
paying an infinite price for every sorrow and sickness, every heartache and
unhappiness from Adam to the end of the world. In doing so He conquered both
the grave physically and hell spiritually and set the human family free. I
bear witness that He was literally resurrected from the tomb and, after
ascending to His Father to complete the process of that Resurrection, He
appeared, repeatedly, to hundreds of disciples in the Old World and in the
New. I know He is the Holy One of Israel, the Messiah who will one day come
again in final glory, to reign on earth as Lord of lords and King of kings. I
know that there is no other name given under heaven whereby a man can be saved
and that only by relying wholly upon His merits, mercy, and everlasting
grace[19] can we gain eternal life.

My additional testimony regarding this resplendent doctrine is that in
preparation for His millennial latter-day reign, Jesus has already come, more
than once, in embodied majestic glory. In the spring of 1820, a 14-year-old
boy, confused by many of these very doctrines that still confuse much of
Christendom, went into a grove of trees to pray. In answer to that earnest
prayer offered at such a tender age, the Father and the Son appeared as
embodied, glorified beings to the boy prophet Joseph Smith. That day marked
the beginning of the return of the true, New Testament gospel of the Lord
Jesus Christ and the restoration of other prophetic truths offered from Adam
down to the present day.

I testify that my witness of these things is true and that the heavens are
open to all who seek the same confirmation. Through the Holy Spirit of Truth,
may we _all_ know "the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom [He has]
sent."[20] Then may we live Their teachings and be true Christians in deed, as
well as in word, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

Notes

  1. [Isaiah 29:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/29.14?lang=eng#13).

  2. [Articles of Faith 1:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.1?lang=eng#0).

  3. Paul F. Achtemeier, ed. (1985), 1099; emphasis added.

  4. Constantinople, A.D. 381; Ephesus, A.D. 431; Chalcedon, A.D. 451.

  5. Quoted in Owen Chadwick, _Western Asceticism_ (1958), 235.

  6. [John 17:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2); emphasis added.

  7. For a thorough discussion of this issue, see Stephen E. Robinson, _Are Mormons Christian?_ 71-89; see also Robert Millet, _Getting at the Truth_ (2004), 106-22.

  8. See, for example, [John 12:27-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/12.27-30?lang=eng#26); [John 14:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.26?lang=eng#25); [Romans 8:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/8.34?lang=eng#33); [Hebrews 1:1-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/1.1-3?lang=eng#0).

  9. [John 5:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/5.19?lang=eng#18); see also [John 14:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.10?lang=eng#9).

  10. [John 6:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/6.38?lang=eng#37).

  11. [John 15:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/15.24?lang=eng#23).

  12. [Matthew 19:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/19.17?lang=eng#16).

  13. [John 14:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.28?lang=eng#27).

  14. [Matthew 26:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.39?lang=eng#38).

  15. [Matthew 27:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/27.46?lang=eng#45).

  16. [Philippians 2:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/2.5-6?lang=eng#4).

  17. See David L. Paulsen, "Early Christian Belief in a Corporeal Deity: Origen and Augustine as Reluctant Witnesses," _Harvard Theological Review,_ vol. 83, no. 2 (1990): 105-16; David L. Paulsen, "The Doctrine of Divine Embodiment: Restoration, Judeo-Christian, and Philosophical Perspectives," _BYU Studies,_ vol. 35, no. 4 (1996): 7-94; James L. Kugel, _The God of Old: Inside the Lost World of the Bible_ (2003), xi-xii, 5-6, 104-6, 134-35; Clark Pinnock, _Most Moved Mover: A Theology of God's Openness_ (2001), 33-34.

  18. See [Romans 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/6.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 11:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.45?lang=eng#44).

  19. See [1 Nephi 10:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.6?lang=eng#5); [2 Nephi 2:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.8?lang=eng#7); [31:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.19?lang=eng#18); [Moroni 6:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.4?lang=eng#3); Joseph Smith Translation, Romans 3:24.

  20. [John 17:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2).

## References

  1.   [Isaiah 29:14](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/29.14?lang=eng#13).

  2.   [Articles of Faith 1:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.1?lang=eng#0).

  3.  Paul F. Achtemeier, ed. (1985), 1099; emphasis added.

  4.  Constantinople, A.D. 381; Ephesus, A.D. 431; Chalcedon, A.D. 451.

  5.  Quoted in Owen Chadwick, _Western Asceticism_ (1958), 235.

  6.   [John 17:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2); emphasis added.

  7.  For a thorough discussion of this issue, see Stephen E. Robinson, _Are Mormons Christian?_ 71-89; see also Robert Millet, _Getting at the Truth_ (2004), 106-22.

  8.  See, for example, [John 12:27-30](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/12.27-30?lang=eng#26); [John 14:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.26?lang=eng#25); [Romans 8:34](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/8.34?lang=eng#33); [Hebrews 1:1-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/heb/1.1-3?lang=eng#0).

  9.   [John 5:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/5.19?lang=eng#18); see also [John 14:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.10?lang=eng#9).

  10.   [John 6:38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/6.38?lang=eng#37).

  11.   [John 15:24](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/15.24?lang=eng#23).

  12.   [Matthew 19:17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/19.17?lang=eng#16).

  13.   [John 14:28](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/14.28?lang=eng#27).

  14.   [Matthew 26:39](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/26.39?lang=eng#38).

  15.   [Matthew 27:46](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/27.46?lang=eng#45).

  16.   [Philippians 2:5-6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/philip/2.5-6?lang=eng#4).

  17.  See David L. Paulsen, "Early Christian Belief in a Corporeal Deity: Origen and Augustine as Reluctant Witnesses," _Harvard Theological Review,_ vol. 83, no. 2 (1990): 105-16; David L. Paulsen, "The Doctrine of Divine Embodiment: Restoration, Judeo-Christian, and Philosophical Perspectives," _BYU Studies,_ vol. 35, no. 4 (1996): 7-94; James L. Kugel, _The God of Old: Inside the Lost World of the Bible_ (2003), xi-xii, 5-6, 104-6, 134-35; Clark Pinnock, _Most Moved Mover: A Theology of God's Openness_ (2001), 33-34.

  18.  See [Romans 6:9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/rom/6.9?lang=eng#8); [Alma 11:45](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/alma/11.45?lang=eng#44).

  19.  See [1 Nephi 10:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/10.6?lang=eng#5); [2 Nephi 2:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.8?lang=eng#7); [31:19](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/31.19?lang=eng#18); [Moroni 6:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/moro/6.4?lang=eng#3); Joseph Smith Translation, Romans 3:24.

  20.   [John 17:3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/17.3?lang=eng#2).

