# LDS Hymnsâ€”Worshiping with Song

My dear brothers and sisters, I rejoice with you in the spirit of this great
conference and pray for the guidance of the Holy Spirit as I speak to you.

According to scripture, after the Savior instituted the sacrament of the
Lord's Supper with the Apostles, they sang a hymn and "went out into the mount
of Olives." ([Matt. 26:30](/scriptures/nt/matt/26.30?lang=eng#29).) From this
scripture it is evident that the singing of hymns was a part of the religious
services at that time.

Today, one of the important parts of our worship services is the
congregational singing of hymns, in addition to the beautiful choir music. As
each of our religious services is opened by a hymn and a prayer, the spirit of
worship is established and a beautiful feeling of fellowship is felt. Today I
would like to emphasize the importance and value of participating in
congregational singing.

In our Latter-day Saint hymns, we sing praises to the Lord, pray unto the
Lord, recite great religious truths--in effect sermons--and our minds and
spirits are elevated and spiritually stimulated.

President Heber J. Grant, in discussing the matter, said: "No individual
singer, or organization of singers, in the Church, should ever render a
selection unless the words are in full harmony with the truths of the gospel,
and can be given from the heart of the singer. In other words, our songs
should be in very deed 'Prayers unto the Lord.'" (_Improvement Era,_ July
1912, pp. 786-87.)

President Spencer W. Kimball, in referring to our singing of hymns, said:
"Some of the greatest sermons that have ever been preached were preached by
the singing of a song. There are many wonderful songs. ... Sing them through."
(New Zealand Area Conference Report, 20-22 Feb. 1976, p. 27.)

In July of 1830, just three months after the organization of the Church, a
revelation from the Lord was given to Emma Smith through her husband, the
Prophet Joseph Smith, in which the Lord stated: "For my soul delighteth in the
song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it
shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." ([D&amp;C
25:12](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/25.12?lang=eng#11).)

In this revelation, Emma Smith was charged with the responsibility of
compiling a hymnbook for the use of the Church. Brother W. W. Phelps, one of
the great hymn writers of this dispensation, was appointed to assist and
arrange for the printing. Ninety hymns were compiled, and in 1835 the first
edition was published.

To illustrate the doctrine, prophecy, and great inspiration contained in our
hymns, let me quote from a few.

"I Know That My Redeemer Lives" was selected as one of the ninety hymns in the
first hymnbook, and the words were written by Samuel Medley. In this hymn, we
sing:

_I know that my Redeemer lives;_

_What comfort this sweet sentence gives!_

_He lives, he lives, who once was dead._

_He lives, my everliving head._

_He lives to bless me with his love._

_He lives to plead for me above._

_He lives my hungry soul to feed._

_He lives to bless in time of need._

_O sweet the joy this sentence gives:_

_"I know that my Redeemer lives."_

J. Spencer Cornwall, commenting on this song, wrote: "To hear this loved song
rendered by an assembly of devoted Latter-day Saints is a spiritual baptism."
(_Stories of Our Mormon Hymns,_ Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1968, p.
108.) How true this is! This is one of our most popular hymns in which we
express thanks for the atoning sacrifice of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.

"Praise to the Man," (_Hymns,_ no. 147), one of W. W. Phelps' inspiring hymns,
is a magnificent tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith. This beautiful hymn not
only incorporates the elements of rejoicing and prophecy, but also contains
basic doctrine, as is evidenced by the statement, "Sacrifice brings forth the
blessings of heaven." The law of sacrifice is an important part of the gospel
of Jesus Christ and contributes to the building of faith, love, and many other
virtues.

Also in the same stanza with the sacrifice doctrine, we sing, "Wake up the
world for the conflict of justice. Millions shall know 'brother Joseph'
again." What a prophetic utterance! At the time Brother Phelps wrote the hymn,
there was figuratively a handful of Church members. Now, millions _do_ know
that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God and millions more will
undoubtedly obtain this testimony. I thrill every time I sing this tremendous
hymn.

"We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet" (_Hymns,_ no. 196). The words to this
hymn were written by William Fowler and published in 1863. This hymn basically
acknowledges our thanks and gratitude to our Father in Heaven for restoring
the gospel in its fulness and establishing His church with prophets to guide
us in these latter days. This beautiful hymn is another of the most popular
hymns as LDS congregations meet and sing in every part of the world.

"Come, Come, Ye Saints" (_Hymns,_ no. 13) was composed by William Clayton on
15 April 1846, and in an edition of the _Relief Society Magazine_ in 1921
(Jan., p. 58), the following story is told regarding the origin of this hymn:

"President Brigham Young, feeling great anxiety, because there were murmurings
in the camp of Israel, called Elder William Clayton aside, and said, 'Brother
Clayton, I want you to write a hymn that the people can sing at their camp-
fires, in the evening; something that will give them succor and support, and
help them to forget the many troubles and trials of the journey.'

"Elder Clayton withdrew from the camp, and in two hours returned with the hymn
known as, 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' His personal testimony is to the effect
that it 'was written under the power and inspiration of the Lord.'"

In this hymn we sing:

_Why should we mourn or think our lot is hard?_

_'Tis not so; all is right._

_Why should we think to earn a great reward,_

_If we now shun the fight?_

_Gird up your loins; fresh courage take;_

_Our God will never us forsake;_

_And soon we'll have this tale to tell--_

_All is well! all is well!_

Many pathetic pioneer stories are told with reference to how this
compassionate plea touched their hearts and brought them great courage and
comfort.

In a southern states mission, a young girl was walking home with a friend and
began humming "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Her friend said, "My, that's a
beautiful melody. What is it?" The girl told her about it, and made a date to
take her to a Church service. After attending a few times, she arranged for
the missionaries to teach her family. The family have all been baptized and
are happy doing their part in building the kingdom.

This great hymn truly epitomizes the great faith and courage of our pioneer
ancestry and today builds this faith and courage in the present generation as
we approach the pioneering work of this age.

"O My Father" (_Hymns,_ no. 139), written by Eliza R. Snow in Nauvoo in 1843,
is another of the greatest LDS hymns. This remarkable hymn depicts our
existence in the premortal existence with the Father and Mother of our
spirits. Then, in the last stanza we sing:

_When I leave this frail existence,_

_When I lay this mortal by,_

_Father, Mother, may I meet you_

_In your royal courts on high?_

_Then, at length, when I've completed_

_All you sent me forth to do,_

_With your mutual approbation_

_Let me come and dwell with you._

This hymn truly lays out all the great drama of eternal life as revealed by
the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. As one sings this beautiful hymn, he
appreciates more and more the literal Fatherhood of God the Eternal Father.

"The Spirit of God Like a Fire" (_Hymns,_ no. 213) was another composition of
W. W. Phelps and was also published in the first LDS hymnbook. The emotional
impact and spiritual power that this hymn generates as it is sung was
demonstrated as it climaxed the dedicatory services of the Kirtland Temple on
27 March 1836. It is my understanding that this hymn has been sung at the
dedicatory services of each of the LDS temples built since the Kirtland Temple
dedication. It has, of course, been sung in many dedicatory services of ward
and stake chapels.

This hymn heralds the restoration of the gospel, the bursting of the veil over
the earth, and the angels coming to visit the earth. The chorus is an
exclamation of great joy:

_We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven,_

_Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb!_

_Let glory to them in the highest be given,_

_Henceforth and forever; Amen and amen!_

The great Tabernacle Choir and the Mormon Youth Chorus have, for many years,
been an inspiration, not only to LDS members, but to millions of others as
they have sung these and other hymns.

Ward and stake choirs also perform a most important part in our worship
meetings and are participated in by thousands of members who receive great joy
and spiritual growth in so doing.

Again, I would like to emphasize the value and importance of participating in
congregational singing. I often wonder, when I see people in a worship service
not singing, could it be that they are missing a beautiful, inspirational
experience?

As I have sung the inspired messages contained in our hymns, my testimony of
the Fatherhood of God and the divinity of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ,
has been strengthened.

Also, our LDS hymns bear witness that God the Father and His Son, Jesus
Christ, did appear to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that he was and is a great
prophet through whom the gospel in its fulness was restored.

My gratitude for our beloved prophet Spencer W. Kimball is intensified as I
sing "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." May the Lord continue to bless and
sustain him.

As we sing our hymns, let us be conscious of the beauty and import of each
hymn, and as we do, our singing will deeply move our souls, bring us in closer
harmony with the Holy Spirit, and strengthen our testimonies. In the name of
Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

