# He Knows You by Name

It was on "the morning of a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of
eighteen hundred and twenty" when 14-year-old Joseph Smith went into the
grove, knelt in prayer, and "saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory
defy all description, standing above [him] in the air." He said: "One of them
spake unto me, _calling me by name_ and said, pointing to the other--_This is
My Beloved Son. Hear Him!_" [1]  Can you imagine how 14-year-old Joseph must
have felt to see God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, and to hear
Heavenly Father call him by his name?

When I visited the Sacred Grove, I tried to imagine what it must have been
like to have been Joseph Smith. In those quiet moments, the Spirit whispered
to my beating heart that I was standing on holy ground and that all that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had said was true. Then came the powerful realization
that we are all the beneficiaries of his faith, courage, and steadfast desire
to obey God. He had received an answer to his humble prayer. He had seen the
Father and His Beloved Son. There in the Sacred Grove, I knew that Heavenly
Father not only knew Joseph Smith by name, but He also knows each of us by
name. And just as Joseph Smith had an important part to play in this great and
marvelous work, we too have an important part to play in these latter days.

Did you know that Heavenly Father knows you personally--by name? The
scriptures teach us that this is true. When Enos went into the woods to pray,
he recorded, "There came a voice unto me, saying: _Enos,_ thy sins are
forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed." [2]  Moses not only prayed but also
talked to God face-to-face, and God said to Moses, "I have a work for thee,
_Moses,_ my son." [3]  The Lord knew Jacob's name and changed it to_ Israel_
to more accurately reflect his mission on the earth. [4]  Similarly, He
changed the names of Paul and Abraham and Sarah. In Doctrine and Covenants,
section 25, Emma Smith is given a blessing for her comfort and guidance in
life. The Lord begins this blessing by saying, "Hearken unto the voice of the
Lord your God, while I speak unto you, _Emma Smith,_ my daughter." [5]

You may not have heard the Lord call you by name, but He knows each one of you
and He knows your name. Elder Neal A. Maxwell said: "I testify to you that God
has known you individually ... for a long, long time (see [D&amp;C
93:23](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93.23?lang=eng#22)). He
has loved you for a long, long time. He not only knows the names of all the
stars (see [Ps. 147:4](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/ps/147.4?lang=eng#3);
[Isa. 40:26](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/40.26?lang=eng#25)); He
knows your names and all your heartaches and your joys!" [6]

How can you know that your name and needs are known by our Heavenly Father?
Elder Robert D. Hales counseled: "Turn to the scriptures. Kneel in prayer. Ask
in faith. Listen to the Holy Ghost. ... Live the gospel with patience and
persistence." [7]

That's what Joseph did. His testimony helps all of us know that we are known
and loved by our Heavenly Father. We are truly daughters of a Heavenly Father
who loves us. [8]  Elder Jeffrey R. Holland has told us: "No one of us is less
treasured or cherished of God than another. ... He loves each of us--
insecurities, anxieties, self-image, and all. ... He cheers on _every_ runner,
calling out that the race is against sin, _not_ against each other." [9]

Once Joseph Smith received this knowledge, his life didn't get easier. In
fact, he was faced with intense pressure from peers and adults. Joseph Smith's
history provides an important pattern for each of us. We can apply his
teachings when we don't know what to do, when we are faced with peer pressure,
when we feel surrounded by temptation, or feel unworthy or alone. We can pray!
We can call upon God in the name of His holy Son, Jesus Christ, and seek
comfort, guidance, and direction. Have you ever had a problem and not known
what to do? Joseph said: "My mind was called up to serious reflection and
great uneasiness. ... I often said to myself: What is to be done?" [10]

How did he receive comfort and guidance? He studied the scriptures, pondered
their promises, and then "came to the determination to 'ask of God.'" [11]
The answer he received that beautiful spring day changed his life and
direction. He _knew._ He gained a testimony of God and Jesus Christ, and his
testimony enabled him to live the gospel with patience and persistence. He was
undeterred by peer pressure and persecution, for in his words he said, "I had
seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny
it." [12]  He could stand firm because of his testimony. And so can you.

If you have ever felt the tug of peer pressure, pray, ask in faith, and listen
to the Holy Ghost. Then live the gospel. Joseph keenly realized his
imperfections and weaknesses. Again--he prayed. In response to this prayer, he
was visited by the angel Moroni. Joseph recounted: _"He called me by name"_
and said "that God had a work for me to do." [13]

As we pray, the Lord will guide and prepare us to do our part. One summer,
while touring Europe with the BYU International Folk Dancers, I learned an
important lesson. I was sick and I became discouraged. I wanted to quit and go
home. We were in Scotland to perform our show for the members, investigators,
and missionaries. We went to the mission home for a prayer. As I entered, I
glanced at a stone in the front garden. Chiseled in the stone were the words
"What-e'er thou art act well thy part." That message went like electricity to
my heart. I felt that that stone was speaking to me. It changed me. I knew at
that instant that I had a part to play not only on that dancing tour but
throughout my life and that it was very important to "act well" my part. [14]

What does the Lord expect us to do? He expects us to play our part in the
final scenes prior to His coming. He expects us to prove ourselves worthy to
return and live with Him. He expects us to become like Him. Follow Joseph's
pattern. I love the words in the hymn the choir just sang: "But undaunted,
still he trusted / In his Heav'nly Father's care." [15]  To be _undaunted_
means unshaken in purpose, resolutely courageous. Joseph described himself as
a "disturber" of the adversary's kingdom. He said, "It seems as though the
adversary was aware ... that I was destined to prove a disturber and an annoyer
of his kingdom." [16]  I have written in the margin of my scriptures, _"Be a
disturber!"_ Trust in your Heavenly Father's care.

Each of us will play an important part if we follow the pattern established by
Joseph Smith. The Lord strengthened Joseph Smith for his divine mission. He
will strengthen you for yours. He may even send His holy angels to tutor you.
Now the challenge is this: Will you be in such a place that angels can enter?
Will you be still enough to hear? Will you be undaunted and trust?

We are living at a time when the fulness of the gospel has been restored to
the earth through the Lord's prophet, Joseph Smith. We are living in a time
when we have the Book of Mormon to guide us. We are living in a time when we
have a living prophet, the priesthood power on the earth, and the sealing
power to bind families together for eternity in holy temples. Truly these are
days "never to be forgotten"! [17]

It is my prayer that each one of us might be firm in our faith, that we might
follow the pattern Joseph Smith established for us to gain a testimony. I also
pray that each of us will worthily represent the Savior as we take upon
ourselves His name. He has promised: "As the new heavens and the new earth,
which I will make, shall remain before me, ... so shall your ... name remain."
[18]

My testimony of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ has served as a guide and
an anchor in my life. I am grateful to stand before you today and say with all
the energy of my heart, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." [19]  I am so
grateful for the integrity of a 14-year-old young man who prayed for an answer
to his questions and then remained true to the knowledge he received.

Each of you has a part to play in this great and marvelous work. The Savior
will help you. He will lead you by the hand. [20]  He knows you by name. I so
testify, in the sacred _name_ of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

  1.   [JS--H 1:14, 17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.14%2C17?lang=eng#13); emphasis added.

  2.   [Enos 1:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/enos/1.5?lang=eng#4); emphasis added.

  3.   [Moses 1:6](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.6?lang=eng#5); emphasis added.

  4.  See Bible Dictionary, "Israel," 708.

  5.   [D&amp;C 25:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/25.1?lang=eng#0); emphasis added.

  6.  "Remember How Merciful the Lord Hath Been," _Liahona_ and _Ensign,_ May 2004, 46.

  7.  "Receiving a Testimony of the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ," _Liahona_ and _Ensign,_ Nov. 2003, 31.

  8.  See Young Women theme.

  9.  "The Other Prodigal," _Liahona,_ July 2002, 72; _Ensign,_ May 2002, 64.

  10.   [JS--H 1:8, 10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.8%2C10?lang=eng#7).

  11.   [JS--H 1:13](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.13?lang=eng#12).

  12.   [JS--H 1:25](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.25?lang=eng#24).

  13.   [JS--H 1:33](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.33?lang=eng#32); emphasis added.

  14.  President David O. McKay was motivated by this same stone when he was on his mission in Scotland. The stone was later purchased and placed in the front yard of the mission home in Scotland so it would be a source of inspiration for the missionaries. It is now in the Museum of Church History and Art in Salt Lake City, Utah.

  15.  "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," _Hymns,_ no. 26.

  16.   [JS--H 1:20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.20?lang=eng#19).

  17.   [JS--H 1:71](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1.71?lang=eng#70), note.

  18.   [Isa. 66:22](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/66.22?lang=eng#21).

  19.   _Hymns,_ no. 19.

  20.  See [D&amp;C 112:10](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/112.10?lang=eng#9); [Abr. 1:18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/abr/1.18?lang=eng#17).

