# Agency and Anger

"I have a family here on earth. _They are so good to me._" This is the hope of
every child expressed in the words of one of our hymns ("Families Can Be
Together Forever," _Hymns,_ no. 300; emphasis added).

We learn in the proclamation on the family that "the family is central to the
Creator's plan" and that "husband and wife have a solemn responsibility to
love and care for each other" and a "sacred duty to rear their children in
love and righteousness" ("The Family: A Proclamation to the World," _Ensign,_
Nov. 1995, 102).

The family is also Satan's primary target. He is waging war on the family. One
of his schemes is the subtle and cunning way he has of sneaking behind enemy
lines and entering our very homes and lives.

He damages and often destroys families within the walls of their own homes.
His strategy is to stir up _anger_ between family members. Satan is the
"father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with
_anger,_ one with another" ([3 Ne.
11:29](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.29?lang=eng#28); emphasis added). The verb
_stir_ sounds like a recipe for disaster: Put tempers on medium heat, stir in
a few choice words, and bring to a boil; continue stirring until thick; cool
off; let feelings chill for several days; serve cold; lots of leftovers.

A cunning part of his strategy is to dissociate anger from agency, making us
believe that we are victims of an emotion that we cannot control. We hear, "I
lost my temper." Losing one's temper is an interesting choice of words that
has become a widely used idiom. To "lose something" implies "not meaning to,"
"accidental," "involuntary," "not responsible"--careless perhaps but "not
responsible."

"He made me mad." This is another phrase we hear, also implying lack of
control or agency. This is a myth that must be debunked. No one makes us mad.
Others don't make us angry. There is no force involved. Becoming angry is a
conscious choice, a decision; therefore, we can make the choice not to become
angry. _We_ choose!

To those who say, "But I can't help myself," author William Wilbanks responds:
"Nonsense."

"Aggression, ... suppressing the anger, talking about it, screaming and
yelling," are all learned strategies in dealing with anger. "We _choose_ the
one that has proved effective for us in the past. Ever notice how seldom we
lose control when frustrated by our boss, but how often we do when annoyed by
friends or family?" ("The New Obscenity," _Reader's Digest,_ Dec. 1988, 24;
emphasis added).

In his sophomore year Wilbanks tried out for the high school basketball team
and made it. On the first day of practice his coach had him play one-on-one
while the team observed. When he missed an easy shot, he became angry and
stomped and whined. The coach walked over to him and said, "You pull a stunt
like that again and you'll never play for my team" (23). For the next three
years he never lost control again. Years later, as he reflected back on this
incident, he realized that the coach had taught him a life-changing principle
that day: anger can be controlled.

In the Joseph Smith Translation of Ephesians 4:26 [[Eph.
4:26](/scriptures/nt/eph/4.26?lang=eng#25)], Paul asks the question, "Can ye
be angry, and not sin?" The Lord is very clear on this issue: "He that hath
the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father
of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one
with another.

"Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one
against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done
away" ([3 Ne. 11:29-30](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.29-30?lang=eng#28)).

This doctrine or command from the Lord presupposes agency and is an appeal to
the conscious mind to make a decision. The Lord expects us to make the choice
_not_ to become angry.

Nor can becoming angry be justified. In Matthew 5, verse 22, the Lord says:
"But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother _without a
cause_ shall be in danger of the judgment" (emphasis added). How interesting
that the phrase "without a cause" is not found in the inspired Joseph Smith
Translation (see [Matt. 5:24](/scriptures/nt/matt/5.24?lang=eng#23)), nor in
the 3 Nephi 12:22 [[3 Ne. 12:22](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.22?lang=eng#21)]
version. When the Lord eliminates the phrase "without a cause," He leaves us
without an excuse. "But this is my doctrine, that such things should be done
away" ([3 Ne. 11:30](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11.30?lang=eng#29)). We can "do
away" with anger, for He has so taught and commanded us.

Anger is a yielding to Satan's influence by surrendering our self-control. It
is the thought-sin that leads to hostile feelings or behavior. It is the
detonator of road rage on the freeway, flare-ups in the sports arena, and
domestic violence in homes.

Unchecked, anger can quickly trigger an explosion of cruel words and other
forms of emotional abuse that can scar a tender heart. It is "that which
cometh out of the mouth," the Savior said; "this defileth a man" ([Matt.
15:11](/scriptures/nt/matt/15.11?lang=eng#10)). David O. McKay said,

"Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other, 'unless the
house is on fire'" (_Stepping Stones to an Abundant Life,_ comp. Llewelyn R.
McKay [1971], 294).

Physical abuse is anger gone berserk and is never justified and always
unrighteous.

Anger is an uncivil attempt to make another feel guilty or a cruel way of
trying to correct them. It is often mislabeled as discipline but is almost
always counterproductive. Therefore the scriptural warning: "Husbands, love
your wives, and be not bitter against them," and "fathers provoke not your
children to anger, lest they be discouraged" ([Col. 3:19,
21](/scriptures/nt/col/3.19,21?lang=eng#18)).

Choice and accountability are inseparable principles. Because anger is a
choice, there is a strong warning in the proclamation "that individuals ... who
abuse spouse or offspring, ... will one day stand accountable before God."

Understanding the connection between agency and anger is the first step in
eliminating it from our lives. We can choose not to become angry. And we can
make that choice today, right now: "I will never become angry again." Ponder
this resolution.

The 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants is one of our best sources to
learn correct leadership principles. Perhaps the most important application of
section 121 is to spouses and parents. We are to lead our families by
persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness, kindness, and meekness, and by
love unfeigned (see [D&amp;C 121:41-42](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/121.41-42?lang=eng#40)).

May each child's dream of having a family here on earth that is good to them
come true. This is my prayer and my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ,
amen.

## References

