# The Bond of Charity

As I have listened to President Kimball, and as I listened to this choir sing
these entreating words, I am reminded of how significant charity is in the
teachings of the Lord. He has said, "And above _all_ things, clothe yourselves
with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness
and peace" ([D&amp;C 88:125](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.125?lang=eng#124);
emphasis added).

I see a mantle as many of you care for each other in acts of tender
compassion, ever striving for the highest, noblest, strongest kind of love--
the pure love of Christ. Charity, or the pure love of Christ, is not
synonymous with good deeds or benevolence. But kind, thoughtful, loving acts
are the way Jesus has directed us to express our love--both our love for him
and our love for others. If we have the sustenance, he says we are to give to
those in want. If we are thoughtful, warm, and caring to those who are sick,
those who mourn, those who are fatherless, those we love, _and_ those who
despitefully use us, then we have charity, for we are moved to act with
compassion.

In Spanish the word _charity_ means "the love that never ceases to be." In
Micronesia the word _love_ translates into "the power to change lives." These
tender nuances give us a better understanding of the pure love of Christ. As
we serve with the single desire to nurture all life, we come to know what
charity means.

This seemed to be a characteristic of Ruth, whose feelings for Naomi are
recorded in the Old Testament. Ruth was compassionate, even though the
circumstances of her life were bitter. Bitter experiences come into the lives
of all of us. Without the bitter, we cannot know the sweet. The prophet Lehi
explained:

"For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, ...
righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither
holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be
a compound in one." ([2 Ne. 2:11](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/2.11?lang=eng#10).)

Ruth knew this opposition. She was just a young woman when her husband died
and left her alone without child. It was a bitter time, and yet there was the
sweetness of her relationship with her mother-in-law and the strength of her
faith in the God of Israel. Both had come into her life because of her
marriage.

Ruth gleaned from the fields to sustain herself and Naomi. But more than what
she gleaned from the fields were the experiences that came as she worked to
thresh out the wheat from the chaff. At the end of her day she had great
blessings because of her effort. This is the challenge we all face in our own
lives. We too must glean from life's circumstances and experiences that which
will give us growth and faith and peace of mind.

There is no way that we can, or should want to, escape the challenges and
struggles of mortality. How we struggle with them is our choice. The gospel
plan gives us an eternal perspective that should help us have courage to be
about our gleaning.

When Joseph Smith spoke to the sisters in those first Relief Society meetings
in Nauvoo, he said: "After this instruction, you will be responsible for your
own sins; it is a desirable honor ... to save yourselves; we are all responsible
... to save ourselves" (_Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,_ sel. Joseph
Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 227).

Notice he did not say that having the knowledge would save them. He said that
having the knowledge gave them the responsibility to do the work of saving
themselves.

The Relief Society organization is prepared by the Lord to help us--his
daughters--as we walk step by step toward perfection. Relief Society can be a
guide, a strength, a light, a direction. Relief Society can teach us how to
develop a love that never ceases. It provides us opportunities to demonstrate
love by our actions. Relief Society will help us sort out truth from error in
our modern world, of what Lehi called a compound of good and evil.

Tonight I have selected eight directives that I believe are crucial if we are
to develop the bond of charity.

  1. Our theme for this evening is--"learn, then teach."
  2. Be active in Relief Society. 
  3. Spread the gospel message. 
  4. Learn and live the principles of welfare work. 
  5. Be sensitive to life's transition, both for yourself and for others. 
  6. Do quality visiting teaching. 
  7. Be a connecting link. 
  8. Value yourself. 

If we all unite and become one sisterhood in our meetings and activities,
together we can become instruments in the hands of God by which he can perform
his work. We will be motivated to good works by the accepting, encouraging,
ennobling love of Christ. My beloved sisters, "above all things, clothe
yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of
perfectness and peace" ([D&amp;C 88:125](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.125?lang=eng#124)).

God grant that we may "learn, then teach" with receptive minds and clear
purpose. May we be fully united in the bond of charity so that we can glean
all of the blessings which the Lord has prepared for us from the foundation of
the earth, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

