# Some Scriptural Lessons on Leadership

I wish to extend a warm welcome to the new members of the Church who "are no
more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the
household of God." ([Eph. 2:19](/scriptures/nt/eph/2.19?lang=eng#18).)

Inasmuch as many of you newly baptized members will soon be called to serve as
leaders at different times in various Church callings, I would like to share
some short scriptural lessons on leadership.

In the Pearl of Great Price we learn that as Moses was called to become a
prophet of God, he was taken to a mountaintop, where he beheld a panoramic
view of all of God's wondrous creations. Jehovah gave him a vision of his
immediate goal, which was to "deliver my people from bondage." ([Moses
1:26](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.26?lang=eng#25).) The Lord then explained his
long-term goal: "This is my work and my glory--to bring to pass the
immortality and eternal life of man." ([Moses
1:39](/scriptures/pgp/moses/1.39?lang=eng#38).)

From the Book of Mormon we read of the young prophet Nephi who also beheld a
vision on a mountain. (See [1 Ne.
11:1](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11.1?lang=eng#0).) Once he had envisioned the
promised land, he could not be dissuaded from building a ship that would take
him there. (See [1 Ne. 17-18](/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/17?lang=eng).) Once
parents have a vision of a son dressed in a missionary suit or of a daughter
in the temple dressed in white, then family home evening, family prayer, and
scripture study assume their proper place in every home. From Moses and Nephi
we learn that _a leader must have a vision of the work which lies ahead._

Following the Great Exodus from Egypt to the land of promise, the children of
Israel were governed by judges for a period of more than three centuries (1429
to 1095 B.C.). These judges were then succeeded by a series of kings, the
first of whom was Saul, anointed by the prophet Samuel. (See [1 Sam.
8-10](/scriptures/ot/1-sam/8?lang=eng).) For decades Saul enjoyed the
adulation and support of the people. But then, lifted up in the pride of his
heart, he disregarded the counsel of the Lord's prophet. At that point Samuel
reminded him of the time when he was little in his own sight (see [1 Sam.
15:17](/scriptures/ot/1-sam/15.17?lang=eng#16)) and taught him that immortal
lesson: "To obey is better than sacrifice" ([1 Sam.
15:22](/scriptures/ot/1-sam/15.22?lang=eng#21)). From Saul's life we learn
that _a leader must be humble and obedient._

Saul was succeeded by King David, whose forty-year reign is considered by many
to be the golden age of Israelite history. Indeed, Jerusalem became known as
the City of David. But notwithstanding his great leadership abilities, he was
tempted to commit a very grievous sin, which he then compounded with an even
greater sin. From King David's life we learn that even kings must be careful.
_Leadership positions do not totally protect us from temptation._

Following the death of David, his son Solomon ascended to the throne. At the
beginning of his reign, Solomon prayed in deep humility: "O Lord my God, ... I
am but a little child. ... Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to
judge thy people." And God _did_ give him "a wise and an understanding heart."
([1 Kgs. 3:7, 9, 12](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/3.7,9,12?lang=eng#6).)

Armed with the Spirit of the Lord, Solomon became God's instrument in building
the holy temple for which Israel had hoped and prayed for many generations.
But with the passage of time Solomon took him wives outside of Israel "and his
wives turned away his heart" and he "did evil in the sight of the Lord." ([1
Kgs. 11:3, 6](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/11.3,6?lang=eng#2).) From Solomon we can
learn that _knowledge and wisdom alone do not qualify people to lead._ Perhaps
Jacob said it best: "To be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels
of God." ([2 Ne. 9:29](/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/9.29?lang=eng#28).)

After Solomon's forty-year reign, his son Rehoboam went to Shechem to be made
the king. He sought the counsel of the elders regarding how he should rule.
"And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto this people
this day, and wilt serve _them,_ and answer _them,_ and speak good words to
_them,_ then _they_ will be _thy_ servants for ever." ([1 Kgs.
12:7](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/12.7?lang=eng#6); italics added.) The Savior gave
his disciples similar counsel when he taught them, "If any man desire to be
first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all." ([Mark
9:35](/scriptures/nt/mark/9.35?lang=eng#34).) Within the kingdom of God, _to
lead is to serve._

But Rehoboam rejected the counsel which required him to humble himself and to
serve others. Instead, he chose to reign over Israel with a very heavy hand,
thus causing a great division into the northern Kingdom of Israel and the
southern Kingdom of Judah. (See [1 Kgs.
12:20](/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/12.20?lang=eng#19).)

For the next 220 years the people generally set aside their sacred covenants,
thus wandering in the ways of the world. Then a young man named Hezekiah began
to reign in Judah. "And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord,"
and "He trusted in the Lord God of Israel." ([2 Kgs. 18:3,
5](/scriptures/ot/2-kgs/18.3,5?lang=eng#2).)

Hezekiah gathered together the priesthood bearers of the day and said, "Hear
me, ye Levites, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the Lord
God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy place."
([2 Chr. 29:5](/scriptures/ot/2-chr/29.5?lang=eng#4).) "Be not ye like your
fathers, and like your brethren, which trespassed against the Lord God ... but
yield yourselves unto the Lord, ... and serve the Lord your God." ([2 Chr.
30:7-8](/scriptures/ot/2-chr/30.7-8?lang=eng#6).)

In response to this assertive leader, who was supported by the prophet Isaiah,
"the Lord hearkened to Hezekiah, and healed the people" ([2 Chr.
30:20](/scriptures/ot/2-chr/30.20?lang=eng#19)), and "in their set office they
sanctified themselves in holiness" ([2 Chr.
31:18](/scriptures/ot/2-chr/31.18?lang=eng#17)).

From King Hezekiah, as from King Benjamin (see [Mosiah
2-5](/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/2?lang=eng)), we can learn a very positive lesson
on leadership: circumstances do not always need to remain the same. Leaders
_can_ make a difference! _Faith in the Lord and high expectations can bring
about a mighty change of heart_ among an entire people.

One of the great teachers and prophet-leaders in Israel was Ezra, who "had
prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord, and to do it, and to teach in
Israel statutes and judgments." ([Ezra
7:10](/scriptures/ot/ezra/7.10?lang=eng#9).) As Saints of the latter days, we
are grateful for a modern-day Ezra, even our beloved prophet, Ezra Taft
Benson, who, like Ezra of old, has prepared himself to receive the word of the
Lord and is prepared to do the Lord's will. I bear you my witness that there
is a living prophet in Israel today.

Another great leader who continually sought the will of the Lord was the
Prophet Joseph Smith. His very life exemplified Paul's admonition to live the
gospel that we preach. (See [1 Cor.
9:14](/scriptures/nt/1-cor/9.14?lang=eng#13).) A great strength of the Prophet
was his ability to delegate and develop leadership skills in those around him.
The expedition of Zion's Camp is but one example of Joseph's leadership based
upon the principle "Come Follow Me." (See [Luke
18:22](/scriptures/nt/luke/18.22?lang=eng#21).) At the conclusion of Zion's
Camp, the Prophet gave the newly organized high council detailed instructions
regarding their callings and then told them, "If I should now be taken away, I
[have] accomplished the great work the Lord [has] laid before me." (_History
of the Church,_ 2:124.) Long before his martyrdom the Prophet Joseph was
diligently training those who would continue to lead the kingdom after he was
gone. Here is another important lesson of leadership: _Leaders are duty-bound
and obligated to prepare others to take their place_ at some future time.
Brothers and sisters, the cemeteries are filled with leaders who thought they
were indispensable.

Among the most righteous and effective leaders to ever walk the earth was
Enoch, who persistently sought to save every single soul.

"And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one
mind, and dwelt in righteousness. ...

"And lo, Zion, in process of time, was taken up into heaven." ([Moses 7:18,
21](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.18,21?lang=eng#17).)

Note the reference to the "process of time." A great leader must have high
expectations, tempered with patience. In section 107 of the Doctrine and
Covenants we learn that Enoch was "four hundred and thirty years old when he
was translated." ([Moses 7:49](/scriptures/pgp/moses/7.49?lang=eng#48).)
Brothers and sisters, I rest my case: _perfection takes a long, long time._
But still, we are commanded to become perfect, even as our Father in Heaven is
perfect. (See [Matt. 5:48](/scriptures/nt/matt/5.48?lang=eng#47); [3 Ne.
12:48](/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/12.48?lang=eng#47).)

From the most exemplary life of all, even that of the Savior Jesus Christ, we
learn perhaps the most important lesson of all. As the Savior was in the
depths of suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane, he prayed that the bitter cup
might pass from him, adding in meekness and lowliness of heart: "Nevertheless
not _my_ will, but _thine,_ be done." ([Luke
22:42](/scriptures/nt/luke/22.42?lang=eng#41); italics added.) _A leader in
the Lord's kingdom must be meek and lowly of heart._ (See [Alma
37:34](/scriptures/bofm/alma/37.34?lang=eng#33).)

May each of us engaged in the work of the Lord perform _His_ work in _His_
way, "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by
love unfeigned;

"By kindness, and pure knowledge ...

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then
showing forth afterwards an increase of love." ([D&amp;C
121:41-43](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/121.41-43?lang=eng#40).)

I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

