# Do It Now

When our oldest child (who is now a father of three and sits in this
priesthood congregation this evening) was 11 years of age, he was given an
assignment, along with the other sixth graders of his school, to submit his
favorite family recipe. As its contribution to a large spring fair, the sixth
grade was producing a cookbook that would be distributed throughout the
community. When the teacher announced the project and a deadline of a week
from Friday, our son Brett immediately concluded there was plenty of time
later to get the job done and dismissed it from his mind. Early the next week,
when the teacher reminded the students of the Friday deadline, Brett decided
he could easily complete the required task on Thursday night and until then he
could occupy himself with other more enjoyable matters.

On the appointed Friday morning, the teacher directed the students to pass
their recipes to the front of the class. Brett's procrastination had caused
him to forget the assignment and be completely unprepared. Flustered, he
turned to a fellow student seated nearby and confessed his problem. Trying to
be helpful, the classmate said, "I brought an extra recipe. If you want, use
one of mine." Brett quickly grabbed the recipe, wrote his name on it, and
turned it in, feeling he had escaped any consequences related to his lack of
preparation.

One evening several weeks later, I arrived home from work to freshen up before
going to my evening Church meetings. A few days prior, I had been called as a
stake president after serving several years as a bishop. We were somewhat
known in our community as members of the Church who tried to live the tenets
of our religion. "There's something you need to see," my wife, Diane, said as
I walked through the door. She handed me a bound book with a page marked.
Glancing at the cover, titled _Noelani School's Favorites--1985,_ I turned to
the identified page and read, "Hallstrom Family, Favorite Recipe--Bacardi Rum
Cake."

Many of us place ourselves in circumstances far more consequential than
embarrassment because of our procrastination to become fully converted to the
gospel of Jesus Christ. We know what is right, but we delay full spiritual
involvement because of laziness, fear, rationalization, or lack of faith. We
convince ourselves that "someday I'm going to do it." However, for many
"someday" never comes, and even for others who eventually do make a change,
there is an irretrievable loss of progress and surely regression.

As a partial self-appraisal of our spiritual-procrastination standing, what is
our attitude when we attend the meetings of the Church? Is it to learn "by
study and also by faith" ([D&amp;C 88:118](/scriptures/dc-
testament/dc/88.118?lang=eng#117)), which seamlessly translates what we learn
into what we do? Or do we have an "I've heard it all before" mentality that
immediately blocks the Spirit's access to our minds and our hearts and enables
procrastination to become a major part of our character?

Of a prominent early investigator of the restored Church, who covenanted that
he would obey any command that the Lord would give him, it was said, "And he
received the word with gladness, but straightway Satan tempted him; ... and the
cares of the world caused him to reject the word" ([D&amp;C 40:2](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/40.2?lang=eng#1)). Contrast that with the Lord's clear
statement: "He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple"
([D&amp;C 41:5](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/41.5?lang=eng#4)).

Alma, with deep emotion, declared, "And now, my brethren, I wish from the
inmost part of my heart, yea, with great anxiety even unto pain, that ye would
hearken unto my words, and cast off your sins, and not procrastinate the day
of your repentance" ([Alma 13:27](/scriptures/bofm/alma/13.27?lang=eng#26)).

Amulek, Alma's friend and teaching companion, amplified the message by
proclaiming:

"For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold
the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.

"And now, ... as ye have had so many witnesses, therefore, I beseech of you that
ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end" ([Alma
34:32-33](/scriptures/bofm/alma/34.32-33?lang=eng#31)).

When I was the age of a teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood, it seemed every
Saturday morning for months I was awakened to the sound of my father doing
yard work outside my bedroom window. (It took me a long time to figure out why
he always started his work under my window.) After a period of trying to
ignore the noise, I would get up and join my father in my weekly
responsibility to help him maintain the yard surrounding our home.

Perhaps after a few mornings of my not arising very quickly or due to other
similar events when his repeated encouragement was needed before I acted, one
day my father sat with me and showed me a large photograph of a sloth, an
animal known for its laziness. Then he opened the Doctrine and Covenants and
had me read, "For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things;
for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a _slothful_ and not a
wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward" ([D&amp;C 58:26](/scriptures
/dc-testament/dc/58.26?lang=eng#25); emphasis added). Since that day, that
image and its lesson have been valuable assets in my life.

One of President Spencer W. Kimball's effective encouragements was the
succinct "Do It." He later expanded this to "Do It Now" to pointedly teach the
need for timeliness.

President Kimball also taught the profound principle that procrastination
leads to the loss of exaltation. He said: "One of the most serious human
defects in all ages is procrastination, an unwillingness to accept personal
responsibilities _now._ ... Many have allowed themselves to be diverted and have
become ... addicts to mental and spiritual indolence and to the pursuit of
worldly pleasure" (_Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Spencer W. Kimball_
[2006], 4-5).

Many of us want the simple way--the process that will not require serious work
and sacrifice. Well, I once thought I found it. Driving in the back of a
verdant valley above the city of Honolulu, I looked up, and there it was--
_Easy Street!_ As I was dreaming of the life-changing benefits of my
discovery, I took out my camera to record the blissful moment. As I looked
through the viewfinder, however, my focus literally and figuratively became
clear. A large yellow sign returned me to reality--Easy Street was a dead end!

Procrastination may seem the easy way, as it momentarily removes the effort
required to accomplish something of value. Ironically, in time,
procrastination produces a heavy burden laced with guilt and a hollow lack of
satisfaction. Temporal and, even more importantly, spiritual goals will not be
achieved by procrastination.

_Now is the time_ to exercise our faith. _Now is the time_ to commit to
righteousness. _Now is the time_ to do whatever is required to resolve our
undesired circumstances. _Now is the time_ to reconcile with God through the
merciful process of change afforded us by the Redeemer of mankind.

We appeal:

  * To anyone who has received a witness of the truthfulness of the gospel and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and has not been baptized and confirmed. 
  * To any holder of the Aaronic or Melchizedek Priesthood who, either by transgression or just doing nothing, is living in opposition to a sacred oath and covenant (see [D&amp;C 84:33-39](/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.33-39?lang=eng#32)). 
  * To any endowed member of the Church who does not currently qualify for a temple recommend. 
  * To any member who has been offended by the actions of another and has in any manner disassociated him or herself from the Church. 
  * To anyone who is living a duplicitous life and is burdened by unresolved sin. 

It is my witness that you and all of us can change, and it can be now. It may
not be easy, but our afflictions can be "swallowed up in the joy of Christ"
([Alma 31:38](/scriptures/bofm/alma/31.38?lang=eng#37)). I so testify in the
name of Jesus Christ, amen.

## References

